Protesters burn tires to block streets during a protest in Baghdad, Iraq, on Oct. 2, 2019. (Xinhua/Khalil Dawood)Demonstration-related violence from Oct. 25 to Nov. 4 caused at least 97 deaths and thousands of injuries during the second wave of demonstrations that started in Iraq on Oct. 25, the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) said Tuesday. According to a report published by the UNAMI, although Iraqi security forces displayed more restraint than in the early protests, particularly in Baghdad, the unlawful use of lethal and less-lethal weapons by security forces and armed elements requires urgent attention. 

A protester is seen during a protest at Tahrir square in Baghdad, Iraq, on Oct. 29, 2019. (Xinhua/Khalil Dawood)The report stated that the UNAMI has found that serious human rights violations and abuses continued to occur in the second wave of protests in Iraq. Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert said the report highlighted areas where immediate action is needed to stop the vicious circle of violence, and stressed once again the imperative of accountability. 

Protesters light candles during a demonstration at Tahrir square in Baghdad, Iraq, on Nov. 2, 2019. (Xinhua/Khalil Dawood)Since Oct. 25, demonstrations have been going on in Baghdad and other cities in central and southern Iraq, demanding comprehensive reform, fight against corruption, improvement of public services and job opportunities. Early in October, mass protests erupted across Iraq for similar reasons. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  UN envoy brokers dialogue between Iraqi protesters, gov't 100 killed in 6 days of anti-gov't protests in Iraq UN envoy calls for dialogue to find solution to Iraq's protests Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Year of the Rat stampSpectators dazzled at 131st Rose Parade