A visitor takes photo of vessel models at the booth of the China State Shipbuilding Corporation at the 2019 China Marine Economy Expo in Shenzhen, south China's Guangdong Province, Oct. 15, 2019. The expo, under the theme of "Sharing Blue Economy Opportunities, Building a Shared Future," opened here on Tuesday. It has attracted more than 450 companies and institutions to participate and is expected to present China's achievements in the marine economy and the latest progress in the global marine industry. (Xinhua/Mao Siqian) 
China State Shipbuilding Corporation Limited (CSSC) was officially unveiled in Beijing on Tuesday, becoming the world's largest ship maker. 

It now has 147 scientific research institutions, enterprises and listed companies, with total assets of 790 billion yuan ($112.41 billion) and 310,000 employees. 
CSSC comes after a long-anticipated merger between two Chinese, state-owned ship-building enterprises (SOEs), the China Shipbuilding Industry Company and the China State Shipbuilding Corporation. 
Being able to design and build ships and marine equipment of international technical standards, the new company is expected to lead China in becoming a strong, global shipbuilder. 
CSSC has three main aims, thepaper.cn reported. One is to become the main force for researching, designing, manufacturing, testing and safeguarding the supply of China's naval armament, including aircraft carriers and nuclear-powered submarines.
Its second goal is to lead China in following a ship-development path of self-reliance and independent innovation. 
Finally, the company is a leader and participant of China's deepening reform and innovation in SOEs, and looks to establish a competitive industrial development system on a global level. Global Times 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China to build warship for Thailand China plans to merge two large ship-building corporations Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims