A Boeing 787 Dreamliner of Juneyao Air arrives at the Helsinki-Vantaa Airport in Finland, June 28, 2019. Juneyao Air opened Shanghai-Helsinki direct air route Friday, providing non-stop intercontinental flight service with wide-body aircraft. The new direct air route will offer more flexible and convenient flight experience to passengers, Juneyao Air said. (Xinhua/Matti Matikainen)The disturbing news broke over the weekend that Boeing Corp has been pressuring the US' Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to clear the problematic 737 Max and allow it to resume flight, after it has been grounded for the last 7 months due to serious safety issues which led to two fatal crashes. Many have been left aghast at Boeing's latest move after it was first reported by US media. Several US airline pilots have criticized the aerospace giant for pushing the swift return of 737 Max jets. American Airlines' flight crew has requested that union officials prevent them from being assigned to the plane.  Airline customers around the world should stand up and speak out against Boeing's irresponsible behavior, as it is becoming clear that the plane maker is rushing in order to improve its balance sheet and stock prices. The FAA, the US government regulator, should not acquiesce to Boeing's request. Until the 737 Max is proven to be wholly safe, it should not be given the certification to fly again. Aviation regulators in Europe, China, India, Brazil and elsewhere are now sure to be on high alert for any further abnormalities. An official investigation report in October found that a breakdown in the US government's regulatory system helped compromise the safety of the 737 Max before it crashed twice within five months and killed 346 people. In the past, the FAA has engaged Boeing's own engineers to work on its behalf, in a serious conflict of interest. This is plainly not how it can continue to conduct its affairs.If the FAA does not distance itself from Boeing's board of directors and reform its past certification procedure, global passengers are likely to opt for planes made by Airbus, Boeing's European rival.The author is an editor with the Global Times. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Boeing orders sink as customers opt to swap MAX Boeing’s trade war costs depend on US moves Qantas grounds three Boeing 737 aircraft after inspection uncovers structural cracks Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Western media creates illusion for human trafficking victimsBig baby makes debutChinese film debuts at DTLAFF