Image taken on July 19, 2017 shows finished photovoltaic panels at the Ernesto Che Guevara Electronic Components plant, in the province of Pinar del Rio, Cuba. (Xinhua/Joaquin Hernandez)  Cuba hopes to generate a quarter of its energy needs from renewable sources over the next decade, an industry official said on Thursday. The government's Renewable Energy Development Program aims to raise clean energy output from today's 4 percent to 24 percent by 2030, said Tatiana Amaran, general director of electricity at the Ministry of Energy and Mines. 

Image taken on July 19, 2017, shows a staff member showing a finished photovoltaic panel at the Ernesto Che Guevara Electronic Components plant, in the province of Pinar del Rio, Cuba. (Xinhua/Joaquin Hernandez) The plan focuses on solar power, but other alternative sources have also been prioritized, including bioelectric plants linked to the sugar industry, wind farms and hydraulic power facilities, said Amaran. Cuban authorities are courting foreign investment in this area by offering incentives and tax breaks. They also implemented new legal norms, which took effect Thursday, to allow businesses and households to sell any surplus energy they generate from solar panels to the state-run Electrical Union. 

Image taken on July 19, 2017 shows a staff member making photovoltaic components at the Ernesto Che Guevara Electronic Components plant, in the province of Pinar del Rio, Cuba. (Xinhua/Joaquin Hernandez) Cuba now gets 96 percent of its power from fossil fuels, but it has made headway in green energy. Between January and October, it generated 687,000 megawatt hours of electricity from renewable energy sources, such as wind, hydropower, solar, cane and non-cane biomass, saving 178,000 tons of fossil fuel. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Pursuit of new energy China uses 14 pct more renewable energy in H1 Renewable energy a possible 1.3-bln USD boom for Australia's Northern Territory: research Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims