Police close off the Waterglade industrial estate in Thurrock, Essex after 39 bodies were found in the back of a lorry believed to have come from Bulgaria. Photo: IC Vietnam has arrested eight more people in connection with the deaths of 39 people found in a truck in Britain who are believed to be Vietnamese, police said on Monday.Eight women and 31 men were found in a refrigerated truck in an industrial park in ­Essex, east of London last month, in a case that has shaken Britain and exposed the deadly risks of illegal migration from Vietnam into Europe. British police initially said the victims were Chinese, but several Vietnamese families came forward to say they feared their relatives were on the truck. None has been officially identified so far. Many of the suspected victims came from just two provinces in central Vietnam, including Nghe An province where eight people have been arrested in connection with the deaths, police said, according to media reports. "This was a very painful incident, a humanitarian accident," said Nguyen Huu Cau, director of Nghe An police, confirming the arrests in video comments carried by the state-run Tuoi Tre newspaper. The official Vietnam News Agency also confirmed the arrests on Monday, saying the suspects were detained for "organizing [and] brokering people to go abroad and stay abroad illegally." Two other suspects were arrested in Ha Tinh province last week in relation to the Essex incident.Brokers are rife in remote towns in central Vietnam, a hot spot for illegal migration into Europe. DNA samples and fingerprints have been taken from several families in the area as officials in Vietnam and Britain work to identify the victims.Families of the missing have told AFP that their children had gone overseas to find work, hoping to earn money to send back home. Britain is a popular destination for Vietnamese illegal migrants, many of whom end up working in cannabis farms or nail bars.  The 25-year-old Northern Irish driver of the refrigerated truck found on October 23 has been charged with manslaughter, money-laundering and conspiracy to assist unlawful immigration.In Dublin, another Northern Irishman is facing extradition proceedings to bring him to Britain in connection with the incident. British police have also said they want to speak to Ronan and Christopher Hughes, two brothers in the haulage business from Northern Ireland.Three other people have been arrested and released on police bail. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  UK police believe 39 victims of Essex lorry deaths Vietnamese nationals Vietnamese, British officials hold phone talks over lorry deaths Lorry driver charged with 39 counts of manslaughter: UK police Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Antique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermathRose queens