Sarah Lucas and her work Beijing Diamonds Photo: Courtesy of Red Brick Art Museum

Sarah Lucas   Photo: Courtesy of Red Brick Art MuseumBeijing's Red Brick Art Museum is showcasing the art of Britain's leading artist Sarah Lucas with the largest solo exhibition of her work ever held in Asia.  According to Yan Shijie, the exhibition's curator and the director of the museum, the ongoing exhibition features more than 100 works from Lucas's 30-year career, both important works from the past and new pieces especially made for the show in order to reveal the creative trajectory of this artist to Chinese audiences. This exhibition is regarded by Sarah Lucas as "A big show surveying my career of 30 years." Additionally, she will complete a series of new works during a residency in Beijing. "I don't have a strong sense of what and how Chinese people think about the cultural, conventional, audacious, radical, conservative - things that I have some sense of, in England at least," said Lucas in a press release. This does not affect her expectations regarding her first exhibition in China. "I always think making an exhibition is an artwork in itself. In different fields and cultural contexts, the cross-cultural dialogue inspired by the works will be different, so I am all eyes and ears and antennae," she added. A member of the YBAs (Young British Artists) that emerged in the 1990s, Sarah Lucas was born in London in 1962 and grew up during the 1980s. During her time at Goldsmiths College, she became dissatisfied with the minimalism-influenced sculptures she had created so far, and, inspired by feminist literature, pornography, and sexuality, she began to turn to cheap and accessible materials that she felt were relevant to her life."I believe that the Chinese audience is ready for the upcoming cultural hurricane of Sarah Lucas," Yan said. "The YBAs that emerged in the 1990s were rooted in a special era. Compared to 30 years ago, the world has undergone drastic changes. This exhibition will show everyone that Lucas, as an important YBA member, has maintained her strong creativity and persisted in her ways, keeping her style consistent, yet responding positively to this era," he added.The exhibition is set to run until February 16.   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China's top political advisor inspects Huawei's innovation exhibition center in North Africa 23rd Annual "Canstruction" Exhibition held in Houston, Texas  Lacquer and jade wares exhibition in Beijing Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese film debuts at DTLAFFYouth climate strikeAntique cars highlighted in US auto shows