Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi addresses the United Nations General Assembly at UN headquarters on Friday in New York City.  Photo: AFPChinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi has offered condolences for the people killed in the series of strong earthquakes that devastated central and eastern Mindanao in the southern Philippines last month, saying China is ready to help the Philippine government in its efforts to rehabilitate the region. In a message of sympathy sent to Philippine Foreign Secretary Teodoro Locsin on Saturday, Wang said he was shocked to learn that strong earthquakes had hit Mindanao, resulting in casualties and property damage. "He (Wang) would like to extend sincere sympathy to the victims and the bereaved families," the Chinese Embassy in the Philippines said in a statement. "China is willing to offer assistance to the Philippines within our capacity, and believes that under the strong leadership of the Philippine government, the Philippine people will overcome the disaster and return to normal life at an early date," it quoted Wang as saying. On Friday, China announced a donation of 3 million yuan (about 434,896 US dollars) to help the quake victims, mostly poor farmers. The Philippine National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) said in an updated report on Sunday that the Oct. 29 6.6-magnitude and the Oct. 31 6.5-magnitude earthquakes that hit several central and eastern Mindanao provinces had killed 21 people and injured more than 400 others. Rescuers were still looking for two missing villagers, the country's disaster agency said. The agency said the two tremors also affected more than 178,000 people in 200 villages in the region. Nearly 22,000 displaced people were staying in makeshift tents, it added. The agency said the quakes also damaged nearly 29,000 infrastructures in the region, mostly houses, school buildings, hospitals, roads and bridges. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Death toll from 2 quakes in southern Philippines rises to 16 Philippines shaken 6.8-magnitude quake hits 9km WSW of Tamayong, Philippines -- USGS Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Antique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermathRose queens