Fan Kaijie Photo: Courtesy of Guo ZhikaiFolk singer Fan Kaijie, better-known by his stage name The Lao Fan Next Door, sat down with music critic Guo Zhikai on music site Kuwo's talk show Kuwo Youth Talk on Thursday to talk about his sudden rise to fame. The 20-something Fan skyrocketed to fame with his song "I Used To," released in February.  During the program, recorded at Fan's college, the Art & Culture College of Tianjin University of Sport, Fan said that he never thought he would one day become so successful. He said he still recalls his debut performance on the campus. When he saw the audience cheering for him after he sang, he knew immediately that he belonged on stage. Like many Chinese folk singers, Fan started his singing career at a local bar back when he was in high school. He claimed that all his songs are inspired by real stories. For instance, "Your Girl" is about the romance between his elder twin brother and a girl. "This is a warm song that can reach the bottom of your heart," Fan said. When asked about how his life has changed after becoming famous, Fan noted that while a lot of changes have taken place, he hopes he can still hold onto his love for music and remain kind.   More and more young people are becoming fond of Chinese folk music, which has ignited discussions about whether this niche music genre is experiencing a rejuvenation. "I think it doesn't matter if folk music walks toward the public. If you really love folk music, then you won't care it is mainstream or niche," Fan said. Kuwo Youth Talk aims to share the stories and experiences of singers. Musicians who have appeared on the show include Huang Rong, Rao Xueman and Shen Lihui.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Chinese-Canadian singer Kris Wu celebrates birthday with new single and short film Russian pop singer performs in Beijing Chinese singer slams cyberbullying amid kicking controversy Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Youth climate strikeAntique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermath