Dong Mingzhu, chairwoman of Chinese home appliance giant Gree Electric Appliances, speaks at the session of "70 and 40 Years in Retrospect: China in a New Era" during the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference 2019 in Boao, south China's Hainan Province, March 26, 2019. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai)Gree Electric Appliances Inc., China's leading home appliances manufacturer, has signed an agreement with Grundfos, licensing three patented technologies to the Denmark-based pump manufacturer. The authorized technologies on rare-earth-free reluctance machines developed by Gree, could raise motor efficiency to the highest class-5 international energy efficiency level (IE5) without using rare-earth permanent magnet, Gree said on Tuesday. Dong Mingzhu, chairperson of Gree Electric Appliances, said the company endeavors to share energy-efficient innovations with international enterprises through patent licensing, and contribute to global sustainability. "Pushing for greener and cleaner development is a key mission of an excellent corporate that can do good to the society," Dong said. Gree is a Chinese innovation-oriented electric appliances giant with a total of 59,568 patent applications, among which 28,874 are of its inventions, lastest statistics showed. Gree-developed products have been sold in more than 160 countries and regions. China is committed to protecting intellectual property and creating a favorable business environment, said Gan Shaoning, deputy head of the National Intellectual Property Administration. Grundfos is one of the world's leading pump manufacturer and produces nearly 16 million pumps annually. The use of rare-earth-free motors will be better for the environment, it said. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Gree Electric gets US deal Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Youth climate strikeAntique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermath