Russian President Vladimir Putin shakes hands with Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov outside the venue of a meeting of the Collective Security Council in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, Nov. 28, 2019. Russia will work to help Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) member countries to make more friends through promoting cooperation with interested states and international organizations, Russian President Vladimir Putin said here on Thursday. (Photo by Roman/Xinhua) Russia will work to help Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) member countries to make more friends through promoting cooperation with interested states and international organizations, Russian President Vladimir Putin said here on Thursday. At a meeting of the Collective Security Council, the highest body of the CSTO, Putin noted that last year a package of documents was approved, making it possible to grant other countries the status of CSTO observer or partner. "After these documents are ratified by all members of the organization, we can start a dialogue with those states expressing interest and readiness to establish close contacts with the CSTO," said the Russian president. In addition, Putin set forth priorities for the Russian presidency of the CSTO in 2020. "Of course, we will strive to further strengthen cooperation with partners in the fight against international terrorism and extremism," he said. Russia will continue the practice of joint operations to identify and eliminate international terrorist groups in the CSTO countries, including their bases and sources of funding, he added. The CSTO is a Russia-led military alliance created in 1992, grouping the six former Soviet republics of Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan, with the aim of safeguarding peace and stability in Eurasia. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Russia to test first upgraded Tu-160M strategic bomber Russia denounces proposed doping ban as ‘politicized’ Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims