Photo: ICChina's central bank said that the cross-border usage of Chinese currency, the yuan, exceeded 14 trillion yuan ($2 trillion) from January to September this year, increasing 20 percent year-on-year. Foreign holdings of China's bonds and stocks have reached a new high.This sends a clear signal that the yuan is in greater demand in the offshore market, despite the bruising tariffs war that China has been forced to battle with the US. Seen through a different lens, overseas investors are casting a vote of confidence in China's government, which is steering the world's second-largest economy and opening its capital market wider to them. Facing relentless economic assault from the US, China's leadership is not wavering. Scoffing loudly at protectionism and unilateralism, Beijing has forged closer economic ties with other major economies. It is sticking to the Belt and Road Initiative by investing more resources in countries along the route, it has opened its doors wider to foreign investors, and it has championed free trade talks like the high-profile RCEP. Ever since China removed quota restrictions on QFII and RQFII programs for overseas institutional investors in September, the central bank has detected rising flows of foreign money chasing yuan assets including bonds and stocks. As a result, China's equities markets have become more attractive and, at the same time, the yuan has solidified against the US dollar and other currencies. Huo Yingli, director of the macro-prudential policy bureau at the People's Bank of China, told a conference in Shanghai on Wednesday that yuan-denominated assets are very attractive, and investors are energetically purchasing the yuan at overseas exchange markets. Yuan market-regulation and internationalization is always high on Beijing's agenda. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) said that more than 60 central banks and monetary authorities now include China's yuan in their forex reserves. And, in the first nine months of this year, yuan foreign exchange reserve assets have surpassed the equivalent of $290 billion. In the coming days, what China needs to do is to nurture a rising number of offshore-yuan trading, clearing and settlement markets. In addition to Hong Kong, Beijing could put more efforts into Paris, Singapore, London and Tokyo. Additionally, the country should adhere firmly to developing technological innovations and ramping up domestic consumption with a stronger and larger middle class, so that its currency extends its appeal and avoids volatility in the exchange market. The author is an editor with the Global Times. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China can afford a looser monetary policy while MLF rate cut may signal lower LPR Macao yuan exchange development right path to serve itself and nation’s overall strategy PBC issues yuan-denominated bills in Hong Kong Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Antique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermathRose queens