Wang Siming, a technician from southwest China's Yunnan province, has lunch at the construction site of power grid construction in Maryang Township, Tajik Autonomous County of Taxkorgan, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Nov. 23, 2019. Maryang Township and Datong Township are located in the Pamir Plateau amid high mountains and deep valleys, far away from the county seat. For a long time, the terrain causes the slow development of power and other infrastructure, which has become the main obstacle for the local poverty alleviation. Even the photovoltaic power panels set by the government can only satisfy the basic lighting needs of villagers in the two townships. To resolve the problem of power supply, local authorities of Xinjiang increased the investment to implement the power grid extension project, which will benefit many remote villages after completion. At present, hundreds of electric technicians from all over the country have overcome the difficulties of high altitude and low temperature to carry out the construction. According to the plan, the power grid extension project of Maryang Township and Datong Township will be completed in succession before the end of June next year. (Xinhua/Hu Huhu)  

A technician works on an electric transmission tower in Tajik Autonomous County of Taxkorgan, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Nov. 23, 2019. Maryang Township and Datong Township are located in the Pamir Plateau amid high mountains and deep valleys, far away from the county seat. For a long time, the terrain causes the slow development of power and other infrastructure, which has become the main obstacle for the local poverty alleviation. Even the photovoltaic power panels set by the government can only satisfy the basic lighting needs of villagers in the two townships. To resolve the problem of power supply, local authorities of Xinjiang increased the investment to implement the power grid extension project, which will benefit many remote villages after completion. At present, hundreds of electric technicians from all over the country have overcome the difficulties of high altitude and low temperature to carry out the construction. According to the plan, the power grid extension project of Maryang Township and Datong Township will be completed in succession before the end of June next year. (Xinhua/Hu Huhu)  

Aerial photo taken on Nov. 24, 2019 shows technicians Liu Jianguo and Yang Xianhui working on an electric transmission tower in Tajik Autonomous County of Taxkorgan, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. Maryang Township and Datong Township are located in the Pamir Plateau amid high mountains and deep valleys, far away from the county seat. For a long time, the terrain causes the slow development of power and other infrastructure, which has become the main obstacle for the local poverty alleviation. Even the photovoltaic power panels set by the government can only satisfy the basic lighting needs of villagers in the two townships. To resolve the problem of power supply, local authorities of Xinjiang increased the investment to implement the power grid extension project, which will benefit many remote villages after completion. At present, hundreds of electric technicians from all over the country have overcome the difficulties of high altitude and low temperature to carry out the construction. According to the plan, the power grid extension project of Maryang Township and Datong Township will be completed in succession before the end of June next year. (Xinhua/Hu Huhu)  

Technicians work on an electric transmission tower in Maryang Township, Tajik Autonomous County of Taxkorgan, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Nov. 23, 2019. Maryang Township and Datong Township are located in the Pamir Plateau amid high mountains and deep valleys, far away from the county seat. For a long time, the terrain causes the slow development of power and other infrastructure, which has become the main obstacle for the local poverty alleviation. Even the photovoltaic power panels set by the government can only satisfy the basic lighting needs of villagers in the two townships. To resolve the problem of power supply, local authorities of Xinjiang increased the investment to implement the power grid extension project, which will benefit many remote villages after completion. At present, hundreds of electric technicians from all over the country have overcome the difficulties of high altitude and low temperature to carry out the construction. According to the plan, the power grid extension project of Maryang Township and Datong Township will be completed in succession before the end of June next year. (Xinhua/Hu Huhu)  

Aerial photo taken on Nov. 23, 2019 shows technicians working on an electric transmission tower in Tajik Autonomous County of Taxkorgan, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. Maryang Township and Datong Township are located in the Pamir Plateau amid high mountains and deep valleys, far away from the county seat. For a long time, the terrain causes the slow development of power and other infrastructure, which has become the main obstacle for the local poverty alleviation. Even the photovoltaic power panels set by the government can only satisfy the basic lighting needs of villagers in the two townships. To resolve the problem of power supply, local authorities of Xinjiang increased the investment to implement the power grid extension project, which will benefit many remote villages after completion. At present, hundreds of electric technicians from all over the country have overcome the difficulties of high altitude and low temperature to carry out the construction. According to the plan, the power grid extension project of Maryang Township and Datong Township will be completed in succession before the end of June next year. (Xinhua/Hu Huhu)  

Aerial photo taken on Nov. 23, 2019 shows 35kV power transmission lines passing through mountains at an altitude of more than 4,000 meters in Maryang Township, Tajik Autonomous County of Taxkorgan, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. Maryang Township and Datong Township are located in the Pamir Plateau amid high mountains and deep valleys, far away from the county seat. For a long time, the terrain causes the slow development of power and other infrastructure, which has become the main obstacle for the local poverty alleviation. Even the photovoltaic power panels set by the government can only satisfy the basic lighting needs of villagers in the two townships. To resolve the problem of power supply, local authorities of Xinjiang increased the investment to implement the power grid extension project, which will benefit many remote villages after completion. At present, hundreds of electric technicians from all over the country have overcome the difficulties of high altitude and low temperature to carry out the construction. According to the plan, the power grid extension project of Maryang Township and Datong Township will be completed in succession before the end of June next year. (Xinhua/Hu Huhu)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  14th Xinjiang Winter Tourism Trade Fair opens Xinjiang people won't allow foreign media's smear with 'leaked file': regional govt Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims