Ho during an interview with the Global Times Photo: Global TimesWith pro-establishment candidates standing at the forefront of possible targeted attacks as district elections are lurking around the corner, Junius Ho Kwan-yiu, an outspoken Hong Kong legislator who was a victim of knife attack on November 6, urged the public to stand united against "black terror."Ho was attacked during an election campaign Wednesday morning in Tuen Mun by a man who approached him with a floral bouquet and a hidden knife. The man stabbed Ho in the chest. The act of terror was not caused by personal animosity or a debt issue, the legislator noted. "During this political campaign, someone tried to silence me by unleashing such terror, as I've been too outspoken," Ho told the Global Times, noting that he would not move backward under such life threat. Ahead of district elections in Hong Kong, malicious attacks on candidates who hold different views have created palpable fears. Following months of anti-government protests with escalating violence, opposition groups have targeted legislators like Ho for their consistent support for Hong Kong Police Force and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region government. He also provided evidence that revealed the months of protests were planned  by anti-government groups and some external anti-China forces, enraging opposition groups in Hong Kong. "Under such spreading of black terror, this year's elections would be a battle for conscience," he said. The attack left Ho with an about 1.5 centimeters long and 2.5 centimeters deep wound in his chest. Ho was lucky and survived as the edge of the intruding knife just missed his heart, he told the Global Times on Saturday in an exclusive interview. Following two days of treatment, he was discharged from the hospital on Friday. Hong Kong opposition groups called the entire incident a choreographed one, in order to garner sympathy for pro-establishment candidates, who have become eyesores of the anti-government protesters over the past few months. They even raised questions like "why was Ho's assistant able to shoot the footage of the attack?"Since mid-July, Ho and his family have been subjected to constant harassment. In July, some black-clad protesters went too far and vandalized and desecrated the tombstones of his parental graves. He said he received many death threats, and has gotten used to online rumors smearing his reputation over past few months. "I've prepared for accidents by hiring two bodyguards, one usually protects my wife, another one follows me," Ho told the Global Times. During the time of the attack, Ho's two bodyguards were with him who quickly came to his defense, and subdued the knife stabber. "Luckily, they reacted quickly. If the man stabbed me one more time, I would have been dead by now," he said. Over the past few months, Ho said he trained his assistants to take photos and shoot videos at a variety of activities, as a precautionary measure in case of any untoward situation. "An assistant did capture the footage on Wednesday," he said, referring to the video clip that became an important piece of evidence of the knife attack.He is not the only pro-establishment legislator targeted by anti-government protesters. Over 60 offices of the pro-establishment Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong have been vandalized and those cases are yet to be dealt with, according to some legislators. The Independent Commission Against Corruption has received 77 complaints concerning the elections as of the end of October, according t media reports. "I have to be more careful now, not stay at one place for long and not get surrounded by others, but I have become immune to those attacks and won't be scared," Ho told the Global Times. Growing fears may affect the upcoming elections as some young people are likely to hinder their parents and many other government supporters, from voting. Opposition groups have come up with different slogans but they only have one objective, which is to take over the control of the HKSAR government. Anti-government forces are increasingly resorting to violence to unleash fear among Hong Kong residents, dampening their enthusiasm to come out and vote, according to the legislator. "It will be a very severe situation, if we let those so-called revolutionary representatives bring violent behaviors to LegCo. We'll face serious consequences," Ho said. The black terror continued spreading across the city, as brutal attacks on ordinary people have become a common sight. A man was assaulted in Tseung Kwan O Saturday morning after he called the police complaining about the noise created by rioters. Rioters also attacked people who disagree with them, and they smashed equipment and attacked a cameraman of TVB Friday night due to their alleged unfavorable media coverage of the anti-government protesters and for exposing their violent acts. In line with the provisions of the Security and Guarding Services Ordinance, personal security measures could be further strengthened, Ho suggested. Security staff could be trained from taking preventive measures when responding to mob attacks. "It might be difficult to expand the police force now. Civil associations could be established in accordance to the law, like nonofficial security force," the legislator said. The new security force could register with the police and be permitted to carry arms to face extremely dangerous situations as hired professionals.Ho urged the authorities in September to block LIHKG, a major social network platform used by rioters to incite violence and spread false information. "Everyone would be scared by these violent threats, but we cannot yield to it," Ho said, urging the public to bravely say "no" to the violence and black terror which have seriously battered Hong Kong.Newspaper headline: Targeted Lawmaker urges peace 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Hong Kong legislator Junius Ho Kwan-yiu showed up at a campaigning event after he was recently discharged from a hospital Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Youth climate strikeAntique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermath