Photo taken on Nov. 3, 2019 shows smoke rising from burning drugs in Helmand province, southern Afghanistan, Nov. 3, 2019. The Afghan authorities burned about 28 tons of seized narcotic drugs in two provinces on Sunday, the latest in the fight against illicit drug trafficking. Photo: XinhuaThe Afghan authorities burned about 28 tons of seized narcotic drugs in two provinces on Sunday, the latest in the fight against illicit drug trafficking. In northern Baghlan province, some 15 tons of narcotics were put on fire and destroyed by provincial police on the outskirts of provincial capital Pul-e-Khumri city, provincial police chief Gen. Wais Ahmad Samimi told reporters at the site. In a similar development, about 13 tons of drugs were demolished in Lashkar Gah, capital of southern Helmand province, according to Helmand's police chief Col. Hssamuddin. 

Afghan security force members prepare to burn seized drugs in Helmand province, southern Afghanistan, Nov. 3, 2019. The Afghan authorities burned about 28 tons of seized narcotic drugs in two provinces on Sunday, the latest in the fight against illicit drug trafficking. Photo: XinhuaAmong the narcotics put on fire and demolished were opium, heroin, morphine, hashish, Methamphetamine, and other types of illegal drugs, according to police officials. The illicit drugs were confiscated by Counter-Narcotics Police of Afghanistan (CNPA) and other security organization in the two provinces within the past one year, the officials noted. 

Afghan security force members prepare to burn seized drugs in Helmand province, southern Afghanistan, Nov. 3, 2019. The Afghan authorities burned about 28 tons of seized narcotic drugs in two provinces on Sunday, the latest in the fight against illicit drug trafficking. Photo: XinhuaIn 2018, some 6,400 tons of poppy opium were produced in western and southern parts of the country, where government security forces have little presence, much lesser compared with 9,000 tons in 2017, according to official figures. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  7 killed in military helicopter crash in N. Afghanistan At least 10 killed in car bomb attack in southern Afghanistan  UN Security Council extends mandate of Afghanistan mission Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Antique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermathRose queens