People show their support to Junius Ho Kwan-yiu, an outspoken Hong Kong legislator, in his first public campaign event on Sunday. Photo: Global Times


当前浏览器不能支持视频播放，可下载最新的QQ浏览器或者安装FLASH即可播放



            (function(){
               var option ={"auto_play":"0","file_id":"5285890795702304492","app_id":"1253985869","width":1920,"height":1080,"https":1};
               /*调用播放器进行播放*/
               new qcVideo.Player(
                       /*代码中的id_video_container将会作为播放器放置的容器使用,可自行替换*/
                       "id_video_container_5285890795702304492",
                       option
                   );
             })()
 
Hong Kong lawmaker Junius Ho Kwan-yiu participated in his first public campaign event on Sunday since surviving a knife attack on Wednesday. Ho was discharged from hospital on Friday and appeared Sunday morning at a campaign rally in front of Melody Garden at Tuen Mun. He was campaigning for the upcoming Hong Kong District Council elections, scheduled to be held on November 24.Dozens of Hong Kong residents came to cheer him, shouting "support legislator Ho!" "End violence and riots!" Ho was attacked by a knife-wielding man on Wednesday morning at Tuen Men. A man pretending to be one of Ho's supporters approached him with a bouquet of flowers but suddenly stabbed Ho in the chest. The attack was condemned as an act of terror.  Ho has become a target of anti-government protesters due to his firm support for the Hong Kong government and the Hong Kong police. "I'm not afraid and I'm committed to serving the public and the fight against black terror," Ho said during the campaign event.To enhance protection, Ho wore a stab-proof vest while standing at street corner on Sunday morning, surrounded by two bodyguards.  Some Hong Kong residents and online users praised Ho as hero for  always speaking out against black terror, which has been spreading in different districts in Hong Kong as black-clad protesters vandalize stores and shops, attacking residents who disagree with them. "Ho is so brave, I admire his courage," a middle-aged local resident told the Global Times on Sunday. "Stability is our top priority, I strive to serve the public and hope peace will return to districts," Ho and his supporters shouted during a street campaign event.
 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Targeted Lawmaker urges peace Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Youth climate strikeAntique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermath