The Swedish Institute Management Programme (SIMP) in China held an event at the Swedish Embassy in China on November 12, celebrating its 10th anniversary. The event - SIMP China 10 Years - attracted over 60 representatives from the corporate sector, government organizations, media and non-governmental organizations.

Swedish Ambassador to China Helena Sångeland gives a speech. Photo: Courtesy of the Swedish Embassy in ChinaIn the presence of Helena Sångeland, Ambassador of Sweden to China, Carin Jämtin, Director General of Sida and Johannes Oljelund, Director-General for International Development Cooperation at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Sweden, discussions were focused on what China has achieved in the field of corporate social responsibility (CSR) with an outlook into what to expect in the future. The SIMP alumni, who are considered experts in CSR in China, shared their perspectives and experiences ranging from state-owned enterprises (SOEs) to industry associations to international organizations on topics such as mining, textile production, sustainable finance and international cooperation.SIMP is a management program sponsored by Sweden to promote and support responsible leadership and sustainable business practices. It was introduced in China in 2009. It runs every year. This year witnessed the 10th anniversary of its China network with over 150 alumni all over the country.In the opening remarks by the Swedish Ambassador to China, she elaborated on the results of the past 10 years. "Sino-Swedish CSR cooperation exists since our first Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) in the area that was signed in 2007. The CSR Center at this embassy will celebrate its 10 years' anniversary next time. During the years, our cooperation between Sweden and China on increasing knowledge and practice of CSR, and promotion of sustainable business has been an integral part of our bilateral cooperation," Sångeland said. "It is a unique cooperation and very constructive. We are the only country that has it with China, which we are very proud of."Newspaper headline: Swedish Embassy marks SIMP’s 10 years anniversary 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los Angeles SoCal alumni association of top university celebrates Chinese lunar new year  Alumni gift alma mater with 5,000 coconuts to celebrate schools 60th anniversary Famous alumni of the Beijing Film Academy attend an event at their alma mater Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Diving SantaCal's sleep initiative is more of a nightmare than a dreamDragon parade