Bodies of the victims of a plane crash are sent to the local hospital in Goma City, eastern Democratic Republic of Congo (DR Congo), Nov. 24, 2019. At least 23 bodies found at the crash site of a plane in a peripheral area of Goma City, North Kivu province in eastern DR Congo, officials dealing with the accident told Xinhua on Sunday. The plane, operating by a local company Busy Bee, crashed into houses a few minutes after taking off from Goma airport for a flight to the city of Beni, according to the governor of North Kivu in eastern DR Congo. (Photo by Cedrick Manja/Xinhua) 

Smoke rises from the crash site of a plane in a peripheral area of Goma City, North Kivu province in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo (DR Congo), Nov. 24, 2019. At least 23 bodies were found at the crash site, officials dealing with the accident told Xinhua on Sunday. The plane, operating by a local company Busy Bee, crashed into houses a few minutes after taking off from Goma airport for a flight to the city of Beni, according to the governor of North Kivu in eastern DR Congo. (Photo by Cedrick Manja/Xinhua)At least 23 bodies found at the crash site of a plane in a peripheral area of Goma City, North Kivu province in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo (DR Congo), officials dealing with the accident told Xinhua on Sunday.The plane, operating by a local company Busy Bee, crashed into houses a few minutes after taking off from Goma airport for a flight to the city of Beni, according to the governor of North Kivu in eastern DR Congo.No passengers survived, including the two crew members, according to Xinhua sources close to the governor's office of North Kivu province and Hospital General De Goma.According to sources close to the company Busy Bee, a loud detonation of one of the engines was heard a few moments after the takeoff of the aircraft. The pilot was reportedly tried to return to his starting point.Airport and UN peacekeeping mission MONUSCO tried to extract the bodies of the victims trapped in the debris of the aircraft that was completely burned by the impact of the crash.Busy Bee is one of the few local aviation companies serving the North and South Kivu province for many years. According to sources within the company, the engine of the plane that crashed had been changed and it was the first flight after the maintenance of the aircraft.This airline company organizes scheduled flights in the northeastern part of the country, especially the city of Beni, Butembo and its peripherals. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims