Photo: Screenshot of SBSNewsThe Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Monday urged Australian media and politicians to look at China and China-Australia relations in a healthy manner, saying they have been in high tensions over China-related issues, sometimes reaching an extreme nervousness, following Australian media reports concerning the case of an alleged Chinese spy. "Lies are always lies, no matter how bizarre the plot is and whatever ways they are played in," ministry spokesperson Geng Shuang said at a routine press conference on Monday. He said that Australian politicians and media outlets kept fabricating China spy or infiltration cases. He said China has been always pursued the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries, that China conducted friendly cooperation with countries including Australia on the basis of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit. Geng urged Australia politicians, institutions and media outlets to view China and China-Australia relations in a healthy manner, as it benefits the stable development of China-Australia relations as well as their own health. Geng's remarks came after Australian media reported that suspected Chinese operatives had offered Melbourne luxury car dealer Bo "Nick" Zhao $AU 1 million ($679,000) to run as a candidate for a parliamentary seat in Melbourne, and the Australian Security Intelligence Organization (ASIO) said it took seriously the allegations against Zhao. The case arose amid Australian media stories claiming that Wang Liqiang, an alleged self-confessed Chinese spy, had applied for political asylum in Australia. Shanghai police denied Wang was a spy, saying he was in fact an ex-con wanted for involvement in a fraud case involving 4.6 million yuan ($653,000). In 2016, he was sentenced to 15 months in prison for fraud, they said.In response, Geng said it was "ridiculous that some Australian media staged a clumsy farce by insisting on the wrong position, hyping up the China threat theory and smearing China, after the Chinese side clarified the information in a timely manner." Geng urged Australian media to respect the unmistakable facts and stop irresponsible deeds. Global Times 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  ‘Chinese spy’ makes fool of Western media Australian media slammed for hyping up ‘spy’ story Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims