The first global flagship store of China’s technology giant Huawei is seen under decoration in Shenzhen, South China’s Guangdong Province, where the company is based, on Saturday. The store is scheduled to open on September 28. It is a three-story building with a unique design. Photo: VCGHuawei would have become the global No.1 smartphone manufacturer but for US suppression, Yu Chengdong, CEO of Huawei's customer business, said on Monday after the launch conference for the company's latest products.According to Yu, Huawei is not now expecting good news relating to the US restrictions, and is preparing for the worst. Huawei surpassed Apple and stayed in second place in the global market in the third quarter of 2019, according to a report by tech research firm Canalys. Huawei's shipments jumped 29 percent year-on-year to 668 million, compared to 435 million for Apple after a 7 percent decrease."Some say people are buying our products out of patriotism," Yu said. "But in the four months our products sold really well in the overseas market. Are foreigners also patriotic? They are buying out of love for Huawei's products."Since last year Huawei has been subject to a series of US restrictions on its business. US company Microsoft only gained a license to export software to Huawei on Thursday, after it was put on the trade blacklist. Huawei's latest product, MateBook D, runs the Windows 10 system developed by Microsoft. "It is a win-win situation, which brings massive commercial benefits to US companies," Yu said. "If we opt for any other solution, it would be a loss for US companies and an inconvenience for consumers."Global Times  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Huawei to launch first 5G tablet by Q1 2020 Huawei founder quits subsidiary post, won’t affect operations: experts Huawei generates jobs, tax revenue for Japan: report Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims