Police officers send home the 13-year-old Cambodian girl who was smuggled into China. Photo: Yangxin Public Security BureauPolice in Central China's Hubei Province have rescued and sent home a 13-year-old Cambodian girl after she was smuggled into China and forced to "marry" two men who were abusing her.  The girl, Rin Mani, told police in Yangxin county she had been smuggled into China in February by a Cambodian woman from her hometown who said she would help her find a good husband and job in China, the Beijing News reported Monday. Rin was tricked into "marrying" her first "husband" and lived in the man's home for six months. The man and his family physically abused Rin until she ran away, according to the report. A friend Rin made online introduced her to a second "husband." The man took Rin's mobile phone away and also abused her until she escaped a month later.  Yangxin residents notified the police on October 8 when Rin asked them for help, but they could not understand her language. Rin said she knew very little about the two "husbands" including where they lived. She said that she "hoped to go home as early as possible; they must be worried about me."Yangxin authorities sent Rin home after confirming her identification with immigration officials and the Cambodian Embassy in China. Rin flew to Phnom Penh on November 3 from Southwest China's Chongqing Municipality. Rin's story emerged shortly after the Essex lorry tragedy, where 39 Vietnamese died while being smuggled into Britain, and sparked widespread discussion on Chinese social media about human trafficking. Chinese netizens have called for a thorough investigation and to punish the human smuggler and the "husbands.""She is only 13-years-old. Were the two male suspects raping a juvenile?" asked one netizen.   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  No more such tragedies -- stories behind Essex lorry deaths All Essex lorry victims confirmed as Vietnamese nationals China sentences fentanyl smuggler to death in joint effort with US police Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Youth climate strikeAntique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermath