The photo taken on Dec. 15, 2017 shows Maj. Gen. Michael Beary, head of Mission and Force Commander of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, taking photos of a removed mine at a minefield near the UN demarcated "Blue Line" in southern Lebanon. (Xinhua/Dong Yongkang) UN peacekeeping operations must follow the purposes and principles of the UN Charter and the basic principles governing such operations, a Chinese envoy said Wednesday. Speaking at a Security Council debate on the police components of UN peacekeeping, Zhang Jun, China's permanent representative to the world body, stressed that peacekeeping policing must at all times be guided by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter and the basic principles for peacekeeping operations, namely consent of the parties concerned, impartiality, non-use of force except in self-defense and defense of the mandate. The Security Council, he said, must fully respect the sovereignty and aspirations of the host countries, and heed their views and those of police-contributing countries. 

Rwandan female peacekeepers take part in the celebrations to mark the International Day of the United Nations Peacekeepers in Juba, capital of South Sudan, May 29, 2019. (Xinhua/Denis Elamu)The council should define clear and explicit mandates that fit the situation on the ground, leverage the advantages of peacekeeping police officers in maintaining social order of the host countries and in creating a sound environment for development, he said. Long-term investment in political dialogue and economic development must be made to ensure lasting peace, said Zhang. He also asked for efforts to boost the capacity of peacekeeping policing and its efficiency. Increasing capacity building of police-contributing countries is the utmost priority at the current stage. The international community must continue to lend strong support to ensure that peacekeeping police officers receive adequate and targeted training and possess the necessary equipment and other resources, he said. 

Lieutenant General James Nakibus Lakara (L), African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) Deputy Force Commander (DFC) in charge of Operations and Plans presents a certificate to an AMISOM military officer during the Gender Awareness Training facilitated by the AMISOM Protection, Human Rights and Gender (PHRG) Cluster, in Mogadishu, Somalia, April 11, 2019. (Xinhua/Charles Onyango)Police-contributing countries must strictly follow the selection criteria for personnel and equipment, enhance management and keep improving the efficiency, credibility, and effectiveness of UN peacekeeping policing, said the Chinese envoy. China is actively delivering on its commitments in this regard by establishing the world's first-ever standby police contingent for peacekeeping, and by training over 800 police officers from other countries for UN peacekeeping, said Zhang. He asked for better safety and security guarantees for peacekeeping police officers. Human life is priceless. Peacekeeping police officers work at the forefront, and their safety and security has a bearing on the effectiveness and credibility of peacekeeping operations, he said. The Security Council must take stronger action to ensure the safety and security of peacekeepers, including peacekeeping police officers, and speak with one strong voice in this regard, he said. The UN Secretariat and UN peacekeeping missions must give high priority to the protection of peacekeeping police officers and provide strong support. Preventive measures, as well as security and medical supplies, must be in place. Early warning and response capabilities in dealing with emergencies must be improved, he said. 

Anita Kiki Gebe, deputy joint special representative of the United Nations-African Union Mission in Darfur (UNAMID), awards UN peace medal to a soldier of the 2nd China Medium Utility Helicopter Unit (CMUHU02) in El-Fashir, Sudan, July 17, 2019. (Xinhua)China supports the idea of properly increasing the ratio of women peacekeeping police officers. While efforts are being made in this regard, it is important to take targeted protection measures, including careful pre-deployment security risk assessments so as to ensure the safety and security of women peacekeeping police officers, said Zhang. Since 2000, China has sent more than 2,600 peacekeeping police officers to nine mission areas. China will continue to support UN peacekeeping efforts and to contribute even more to peacekeeping policing, he said. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Chinese peacekeeping helicopter unit to Sudan's Darfur awarded UN peace medals Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Year of the Rat stampSpectators dazzled at 131st Rose Parade