Technicians detect a non-alcohol drink made of bamboo in a biotechnology company in Anji County, east China's Zhejiang Province, June 3, 2016. Anji is known for its pleasant environment with flourishing bamboo plantations and many scenes from the famous movie "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" were shot here. The county persists in green, low-carbon development, and strives to protect environment as well as to develop local economy. China has pledged to coordinate its efforts of environmental protection and economic development in 2019, an important year for winning the tough battle against pollution. At the annual Central Economic Work Conference earlier this month, authorities called for building on this year's achievement in pollution control, making more efforts and input in 2019. Since the turn of this year, China has made solid efforts to combat pollution and seen constant improvement of the environment. The Central Economic Work Conference made it clear that local governments must avoid past simple and unscrupulous practices in dealing with environmental problems. (Xinhua/Tan Jin)The Xiongan New Area in North China's Hebei Province plans to build a genetic data center, in an attempt to develop the area's bioscience and biotechnology industries, the Hebei provincial government said.In a document released by the provincial government on Monday to support the province's bioengineering and pharmaceutical industry, companies are encouraged to undertake technical research into gene therapy. In addition, the province supports the clinical application of gene sequencing technology, and the establishment of a genetic testing application demonstration center and public technology platform.The province will allocate more money to support the study of bioscience, bioengineering and biomedical engineering in local universities as a way to cultivate talent, said the document. Hebei is looking to the future because the gene-related industry is really new in China, Wang Jun, deputy director of the department of information at the China Center for International Economic Exchanges, told the Global Times on Wednesday. "As 'a millennium plan' of our country, Xiongan must foster its own competitive industries… The move by Hebei is a way to look ahead, to explore and develop a promising industry at an advanced technological level." Wang noted that based on current conditions, the main focus in Xiongan is developing light industry as well as high-technology sector.Being adjacent to Beijing and North China's Tianjin Municipality, both of which have abundant technology resources, Xiongan New Area can take advantage of the scientific research institutions, companies and talent in the two cities, he said."If Xiongan can aggregate the resources in the genetic area and grab a market share at an early stage under the guidance of policy, it will have a great opportunity to develop the gene-related industry well," Wang said. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Healthy living may help offset genetic risk of dementia, study says China issues strict guidelines on genetic resource study China issues strict guidelines on genetic resource study Big baby makes debutAntique cars highlighted in US auto showsRose queens Global Times and Pakistan Observer signs MoUThe 3rd Sino-Nordic Cup Football Tournament draws crowdsGlobal Times begins cooperation with Sputnik