Photo taken at the night of Nov. 11, 2019 shows the view of the candlelight parade surrounding the That Luang during the That Luang Festival in Vientiane, Laos. (Photo by Kaikeo Saiyasane/Xinhua)  Lao capital Vientiane officials are confident that the targeted number of 2 million visitors set for Visit China-Laos Year 2019 will be reached. Local daily Vientiane Times on Monday quoted Director of the capital Vientiane Information, Culture and Tourism Department, Vilayvone Chanthalaty, said that city authorities in cooperation with individual companies had made a great effort to attract more tourists by creating and improving visitor attractions. More than 1.5 million visitors came to Vientiane capital in the first 10 months of 2019, Vilayvone said. Vientiane capital is known for its rich culture and history, with the That Luang Grand Stupa being a standout feature of the city as an enduring symbol of Laos and an icon of Buddhism. Hor Phakeo, Vat Simeuang and Vat Sisaket temples are steeped in history as well as being architecturally fascinating. Also in the town center is the Patuxay monument which rises majestically into the sky, challenging the energetic to climb to the top for a panoramic view. It also has a small park attached, where the weary can take a restful break. Vientiane capital is the most visited destination in Laos and a hub for travel around the country and onward to other countries. The city has 24 officially designated places of cultural interest and 15 historical sites, while a trip to the outskirts will provide a contrasting rural environment complete with rivers and lakes. As of 2018, Vientiane capital had 230 hotels, 253 guesthouses and resorts, 108 restaurants and 38 entertainment venues, according to the Tourism Development Department, Lao Ministry of Information, Culture and Tourism. More than 2.2 million tourists visited Laos in the first six months of 2019, an increase of about 5 percent compared to the same period last year, said the report. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Diving SantaCal's sleep initiative is more of a nightmare than a dreamDragon parade