A farmer ploughs in the field with a head of cattle at the foot of Dabieshan Mountain in Liluocheng Village of Xinyang City, central China's Henan Province, Nov. 3, 2019. (Photo by Hao Yuan/Xinhua)China's rural residents in poverty-stricken areas saw robust disposable income growth in the first three quarters of the year, official data showed. The per capita disposable income of these residents stood at 8,163 yuan (about 1,167 US dollars), up 10.8 percent year on year during the period, according to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). The income increased 8 percent from the same period last year after deducting price factors. The growth rate was 1.6 percentage points higher than that of rural residents nationwide and 1.9 percentage points higher than the national average. In breakdown, the per capita wage income expanded 12.2 percent year on year, with the growth rate up 2.8 percentage points from that of the overall rural area, the NBS said. 

A farmer dries chili peppers in Zhouying Village, Naodian Township of Baofeng County, central China's Henan Province, on Oct. 16, 2019. (Xinhua/Li Jianan)Wu Wei, a senior statistician with the NBS, attributed the steady growth of farmer's wage income to the increase of hired rural labors in central and western parts of China, together with the stable rise of wages. Per capita net operating revenue in impoverished areas climbed 6.8 percent, expanding 1.3 percentage points faster than one year earlier, with the income from the tertiary industry registering a yearly growth of 11.2 percent. Income from the agricultural sector rose 3.8 percent year on year, bucking the trend of a 3.9 percent drop from last year, thanks to expanded summer grain output and price rises of animal husbandry products. 

A villager delivers freshly harvested Hami melons at Guotang Village in Zaoqiang County, north China's Hebei Province, Oct. 24, 2019. (Xinhua/Li Xiaoguo)The farmers' per capita income from the government climbed 15.3 percent year on year, which includes pension, social relief, agriculture subsidies and living allowance, etc. In the past six years, China lifted 82.39 million rural poor out of poverty, with the rural poor population down from 98.99 million in 2012 to 16.6 million in 2018. The country is aiming to lift all rural residents living below the current poverty line out of poverty and eliminate poverty in all counties and regions by 2020. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Chinese farmers cultivate new orange varieties ripening in spring Chinese farmers busy working in early spring Chinese farmers work after Spring Festival holiday Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Youth climate strikeAntique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermath