Participants at the exhibition Photo: Courtesy of Buer CHAN

CHAN and Everything exhibition Photo: Courtesy of Buer CHAN Photos: Courtesy of Buer CHAN

CHAN painting Film  Photo: Courtesy of Buer CHANBlack and white - talented CHAN master Xueshan Jingyan uses black ink and a calligraphy brush to paint chessboards, books, tea and many other items related to people's daily lives on large swathes of blank white paper, conveying the power of life to viewers.   CHAN is an ideology and cultivation method with Chinese characteristics mixing Buddhism, Confucianism and Taoism. Featuring 55 of Xueshan Jingyan's freehand brushworks, the CHAN and Everything exhibition held from Saturday to Monday at Beijing's Phoenix Center gave visitors the opportunity to experience for themselves the depth of the school's philosophy as expressed in art. "When I enjoy CHAN paintings, I gain real energy from my inner heart, which is different from the feeling of excitement I feel after drinking a cup of coffee," Tianxiong, a 33-year-old researcher working in Suzhou, East China's Jiangsu Province, told the Global Times on Saturday. In his works, Xueshan Jingyan uses painting as a medium to convey the principle of "Taoism and Nature," and showcases the incredible mysterious connection between Heaven and Earth by drawing different circular patterns with elements such as bamboo, mountains and monks. "The circles in the paintings are not just round objects, but represent the cycle of rebirth and the harmony between people and the universe, which is the state of CHAN," Wuyi, a CHAN practitioner and a student of Xueshan Jingyan, said at the exhibition's opening ceremony on Saturday. According to Wuyi, Xueshan Jingyan started to study CHAN when he was 8 years old, and he finished his master's degree and doctorate at Peking University.  "He does not have the concept of nationality. All he wants is to show the world how marvelous China's CHAN culture is," said Wuyi.Wuyi said she thinks the secret to Xueshan Jingyan's beautiful art is his joyful mood, which he attained from countless days of mediation. "For example, he likes to watch the sunset from the top of snowy mountains and wait for the sun to rise from the other side of the sky. He wants to become part of the harmony between Heaven and Man, and from that draw inspiration for his art," Wuyi said, noting that many of the paintings at the exhibition were painted on mountaintops. Prior to its arrival in Beijing, the exhibition debuted in Tokyo, Japan, on October 20. "CHAN spread to Japan a long time ago, especially during the Tang Dynasty (618-907) and Song Dynasty (960-1279). A lot of Chinese culture, including Buddhism and CHAN culture, spread to Japan and had a significant influence on Japan, including the Japanese Tea Ceremony and flower arrangement. I really respect CHAN culture and feel honored to be here," 73-year-old Tadatosi Ogawa, former president of the Tokyo Art Club, told the Global Times on Saturday. "The CHAN culture in South Korea and Japan originated from China. It combined with local culture to form unique CHAN cultures, but the essence of them all - harmony - is the same," said Wuyi.The next stop for the exhibition is the US. Wuyi noted that she was not worried that people in the West would find the paintings and their multitude of round shapes confusing. "The former CEO of Apple, Steve Jobs, believed in CHAN for years and I believe that he brought the culture to many people working in Silicon Valley. I hope more people in the West can learn about CHAN culture," Wuyi told the Global Times on Saturday.  She pointed out that what really concerned her was that many Chinese did not understand this facet of traditional Chinese culture. "Many people, especially young people, wrongly think that CHAN is a religion, but it is not. CHAN comes from our life. I hope CHAN culture can infiltrate into people's lives and attract more Chinese through some daily activities such as this CHAN painting exhibition," she said. Newspaper headline: Life of harmony 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Chinese painting biennale opens in Changchun, Jilin Province  Traditional peony paintings by village artists decorate CIIE Video: Chinese painting on the coastline Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Western media creates illusion for human trafficking victimsBig baby makes debutChinese film debuts at DTLAFF