Chinese President Xi Jinping meets with Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who is here for the second China International Import Expo (CIIE), in Shanghai, east China, Nov. 4, 2019. Photo: Xinhua Chinese President Xi Jinping on Monday met with Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who is in Shanghai for the second China International Import Expo. China is willing to continue deepening political mutual trust and traditional friendship with Serbia, jointly promote the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), further elevate the bilateral comprehensive strategic partnership and build a closer community of shared interests, Xi said. The two sides should keep up the momentum in high-level exchanges, and firmly support each other's core interests, Xi added. Efforts should be made to well implement major cooperation projects in production capacity, infrastructure development and other fields, while cooperation in multilateral areas should be enhanced to uphold the basic norms of international relations and multilateralism, Xi said. China is ready to work with all parties including Serbia to push for the steady development of cooperation between China and Central and Eastern European countries, the president said. Brnabic said the friendship between the two countries is as solid as steel and iron, and bilateral ties are at their historical best. Serbia will continue to play an active role in the joint development of the BRI, and support Chinese firms' investment in the country, she said. The China International Import Expo has sent a strong signal about promoting economic globalization and trade liberalization to achieve mutually beneficial and win-win outcomes, she said, adding that Serbia will continue its active participation in the expo, and work with China to enhance international cooperation and oppose unilateralism and protectionism. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Serbian military show "Freedom 2019" held in Belgrade Hoping for a date, Serbian man makes false bomb threat BRI progress brings benefits to participating countries: Serbian legislator Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Antique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermathRose queens