A Russian visitor takes a photo of the installation work The East Meets West at the National Art Museum of China on Friday. Photo: Li Hao/GT A new exhibition featuring the local art of Macao kicked off at Beijing's National Art Museum of China on Friday. To mark the 20th anniversary of Macao's return to China, the National Art Museum of China, the Cultural Affairs Bureau of Macao SAR and the Macao Museum of Art are also hosting a series of events along with the exhibition.   Fusion features a total of 76 artworks from 65 Macao artists, giving visitors the chance to learn about how Macao merged the cultures of the East and West. Macao's landmark sites including the A-Ma Temple, The Ruins of Saint Paul's and Senado Square are represented in the many paintings and installation works on display. "The exhibition will boost understanding and knowledge of Macao art for mainland audiences as well as promote exchanges between Macao and mainland artists," the museum's curator Wu Weishan told the Global Times. According to a preface from the Cultural Affairs Bureau, these artworks reveal local people's lives, scenes of other cities in China and views of Macao to showcase how the return impacted people's lives. Inspired by raincoats, artist Xu Lingzhi created the installation work The East Meets West. The 20 set of raincoats used in the work are marked with prints featuring Macao's various cultural elements. "It is a unique display of Eastern cultural heritage and modern visual arts to tell Macao's story," she said. The exhibition is set to run until November 30. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Lacquer and jade wares exhibition in Beijing French artist Edouard Baribeaud holds solo exhibition at George V Art Center in Beijing Xi, foreign leaders tour CIIE exhibitions Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Youth climate strikeAntique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermath