Toby Jenner, Global CEO of Wavemaker The new Global CEO of Wavemaker, Toby Jenner, sits down with Global Times to talk about his vision for Wavemaker, giving his perspective on what creates business growth, and what role agencies should play in the future. Wavemaker is one of only six WPP businesses that is in excess of a billion dollars in revenue, managing over 13 billion dollar media investments. It is among the top 5 global media agency networks. In China, has been ranking first since the 2018 COMvergence New Business Barometer, a report measuring the performance and strategic developments of global marketing communications agencies and consultancy firms. It also keeps high client retention rate at over 90 percent.Just shy of two years old, Wavemaker is still new in the market. It was formed from the merger of MEC and Maxus, two GroupM brands, in December 2017. It is new, and it is destined to make waves... "I think with any merger, it's challenging to bring two different businesses, two different cultures together, so that's taken time. But that hasn't stopped Wavemaker growing and winning new clients, and I think China is a great example," Toby told Global Times.In China, Wavemaker recently won the media business of worldwide renowned producer of wines and spirits Pernod Ricard. Wavemaker China's client portfolio is across categories and industries: New Balance in sportswear, Red (Xiaohongshu) in social commerce and Union Pay in payment systems. It also has Chinese telecom giant Huawei as one of its largest global clients.Product as KeyWavemaker's win come from having market leading products, people and offer. Jenner told Global Times that Wavemaker has been making investment to continuously enhancing its capabilities, particularly within ecommerce, content and precision marketing.For 2020, Wavemaker is building an operations system to ensure a globally consistent way of working, and to stimulate and inspire markets, capabilities and client teams all around the world."The investments are paying off," Jenner said, "because we're growing as a business, particularly here in China, and we're growing through winning new clients."

Wavemaker Greater China reception Photos: Courtesy of GroupM Through Lens of MediaAs digital media develops in a dramatic way, new marketing approaches, for instance, short video, as well as new platforms, like Tik-Tok, keep emerging. "We have to look at things like short-form content video through the lens of media and optimization," Jenner told the Global Times."We have to make sure that we have the right content on the right platform, for the right audience and with the right message. And I think that, as long as we look at it through the lens of how we can best optimize the media channel, that is absolutely a space that we should be playing in."Media is a rapidly changing industry, influenced by new ideas, data, changing consumer wants and habits. Media agencies are faced with a complex global landscape. But Jenner thinks there are ongoing opportunities for agencies.He said that when clients want different models and different ways of working depending on their business objectives, agencies have to be flexible to give the right clients solutions that help grow their business.Potential to be realizedWavemaker sees China as its global growth engine. Wavemaker China represents about ten percent of its all business. "I'm always fascinated when I come here to see how things involved," Jenner said. "We've really got a lot of headroom, a lot of opportunity to grow as a business."The company is also looking for the opportunities to help Chinese brand develop globally. Jenner believes that China is an outbound market. He sees Huawei as a successful example of Chinese brands going global. "They do a great job of translating the essence of Huawei into individual market," he said. "As long as you translate the business truth into a local market and you have a great product, which Huawei does, then it goes well." Jenner believes Wavemaker is in a good position because it has people around the world to ensure the nuance in a particular market comes through. Toby Jenner joined Wavemaker this September, as Global CEO. Prior this, Jenner held the MediaCom roles of Global COO, Global Chief Business Development & Marketing Officer, Asia Pacific COO, and CEO of Australasia. He originally joined GroupM as Managing Director of MEC in the UK. "In the past 9 weeks, I've visited nine of our offices, for example including New York, Paris, Shanghai and Bangkok . I feel excited about what I've seen, we've got remarkable local leadership and great talent and an entrepreneurial spirit.""I think the opportunity we have now is to take all of that, and work out what's made each of those markets so fantastic - and then codified each amazing bit into a global best practice," he said.Wavemaker has a collection of over 500,000 purchase journeys across 40 markets and 80 categories. It has 7,600 Wavemakers in 90 countries and regions. In China, it has 900 staff in 5 offices, with a client portfolio including CHANEL, Daimler, Huawei, Pernod Ricard and Red (Xiaohongshu). Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Western media creates illusion for human trafficking victimsBig baby makes debutChinese film debuts at DTLAFF