Photo taken on Aug. 8, 2018, shows the Uber and Lyft Apps on an iPhone in New York, the United States. (Xinhua/Li Muzi)Defensive driving skills will come in handy at Uber Technologies. Chief Executive Dara Khosrowshahi steadied the troubled firm and took it public in May. But Uber's future depends in large part on his reaction to rivals in car-hailing and food delivery. Khosrowshahi's level-headedness was a blessing for Uber after months of drama that culminated in the ousting of co-founder Travis Kalanick in 2017. He helped set the company up for its IPO. Having seen the subsequent implosion of the IPO attempt by WeWork's parent, another heavily money-losing venture, that's a bigger achievement than it seemed. Still, Uber's share price has fallen by about 40 percent since it went public. One problem at the $46 billion company is continued heavy spending on incentives. The car-hailing market has become more rational of late. Smaller US rival Lyft cut marketing spending by 32 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier. The easing of competitive pressure helped Uber report more than 50 percent growth in what it calls rides adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter.The reduction in hostilities may not last long, though. Last week, Lyft said it was offering $250 in ride credits in three cities to people selling cars through an online auto retailer. Uber also faces tough competition in South America and elsewhere. Meanwhile, Uber is still pushing into restaurant delivery. Even though sales growth fell from a 90 percent year-on-year pace in the first quarter to a 64 percent increase in the third quarter, competition remains cutthroat. Analysts at Cowen estimate that Uber Eats is operating at a net loss of $4.12 per trip. Investor SoftBank Group could help rationalize the US food delivery market where it has also invested in DoorDash, the industry leader. But until that happens, it's a terrible business. Grubhub Chief Executive Matt Maloney says customers aren't loyal, and the costs to woo them almost wiped out his second-placed firm's profit in the third quarter.Khosrowshahi says it's not worth being in a sector if Uber isn't at least No. 2. He recently pulled Uber Eats from South Korea, and Uber also gave up on China ride-sharing in 2016. The CEO said last week that he expects Uber will be profitable in 2021. The question is whether that's within his control.The author is Gina Chon, a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The article was first published on Reuters Breakingviews. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Uber’s questionably sustainable earnings look like a winding road to nowhere Uber receives London operating license but only for two months  Uber labor bill reduces power imbalance, but risks straying from righteous road Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Western media creates illusion for human trafficking victimsBig baby makes debutChinese film debuts at DTLAFF