Palestinian protesters clash with Israeli troops on the Gaza-Israel border, east of southern Gaza Strip city of Khan Younis, Nov. 8, 2019. At least 69 Palestinians were injured on Friday by Israeli soldiers' gunfire during clashes with dozens of Palestinian demonstrators in eastern Gaza Strip, close to the border with Israel, medics said. (Photo by Khaled Omar/Xinhua)  

Palestinian medics carry a wounded man during clashes with Israeli troops on the Gaza-Israel border, east of southern Gaza Strip city of Khan Younis, Nov. 8, 2019. At least 69 Palestinians were injured on Friday by Israeli soldiers' gunfire during clashes with dozens of Palestinian demonstrators in eastern Gaza Strip, close to the border with Israel, medics said. (Photo by Khaled Omar/Xinhua)  



A Palestinian protester uses a slingshot to hurl stones at Israeli troops during clashes on the Gaza-Israel border, east of Gaza City, Nov. 8, 2019. At least 69 Palestinians were injured on Friday by Israeli soldiers' gunfire during clashes with dozens of Palestinian demonstrators in eastern Gaza Strip, close to the border with Israel, medics said. (Photo by Mohammed Dahman/Xinhua)  



Palestinian medics carry a wounded man during clashes with Israeli troops on the Gaza-Israel border, east of Gaza City, Nov. 8, 2019. At least 69 Palestinians were injured on Friday by Israeli soldiers' gunfire during clashes with dozens of Palestinian demonstrators in eastern Gaza Strip, close to the border with Israel, medics said. (Photo by Mohammed Dahman/Xinhua)  



A Palestinian protester uses a slingshot to hurl stones at Israeli troops during clashes on the Gaza-Israel border, east of southern Gaza Strip city of Khan Younis, Nov. 8, 2019. At least 69 Palestinians were injured on Friday by Israeli soldiers' gunfire during clashes with dozens of Palestinian demonstrators in eastern Gaza Strip, close to the border with Israel, medics said. (Photo by Khaled Omar/Xinhua)   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  109 Palestinian protesters injured by Israeli gunshots at Gaza border: report Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Youth climate strikeAntique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermath