Photo: VCGRyanair still has a 737 MAX-shaped cloud on the horizon. Shares in the European budget airline are up more than 50 percent since hitting a near five-year low in August, mainly because a price war is proving less painful than feared. Yet outsize exposure to the grounded Boeing jet is crimping future passenger growth. Without the super-efficient plane in its fleet, costs will also be harder to control.Ryanair's results for the half year to September, released on Monday, provided more evidence of the cut-throat competition in Europe's low-cost airfare market. Its average fare fell 5 percent to 44 euros ($49), though Ryanair more than made up the shortfall with increased add-on charges. Payments for items like heavier hand luggage and priority booking jumped by 16 percent per passenger. Though the company still expects a full-year net income of about 850 million euros, its shares jumped 7 percent to 13.34 euros on Monday morning, their highest in more than a year.That's still a long way from the 2 billion euros in net profit, or 21 euro share price, that Chief Executive Michael O'Leary needs to hit in order to pocket his controversial long-term bonus of 99 million euros. Without the 737 MAX, that target is even tougher.The 14.5 billion euro airline has ordered 210 of the jets, which were grounded earlier this year after two fatal crashes. Assuming regulators clear them for takeoff, Ryanair expects to have 20 of them ready for next summer's high season. A year ago it expected to have 58.Even though the jets represent less than 5 percent of Ryanair's 450-strong fleet, not receiving them would deliver a double blow to earnings. Besides losing space for 4 percent more passengers, O'Leary will miss out on efficiency gains: the 737 MAX burns 16 percent less fuel than its older counterparts. Given that the company's fuel bill rose 22 percent to 1.6 billion euros over the last six months, accounting for more than a third of operating costs, that's painful.Shares in easyJet have enjoyed a similar revival to Ryanair's, climbing 54 percent over the last five months. The carrier now trades at 15 times forecast net income for this year. After Monday's jump, Ryanair is valued at 17 times. Given easyJet's lack of a Boeing headache, the two rivals could well switch flight paths.The author is Ed Cropley, a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The article was first published on Reuters Breakingviews. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Ryanair CEO’s huge share options in reach if he doubles the airline’s profits by 2024 Over 1,000 Ryanair flights cancelled in July, affecting nearly 200,000 customers Ryanair confirms injuries following its flight emergency landing in Germany Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Antique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermathRose queens