Photo:ICBernard Looney's new job is already hard. BP's incoming chief executive, who takes over next year, faces a dilemma over how to balance fossil fuels with a lower-carbon world. Thirdquarter results on the surface complicate things further, but there's a silver lining. BP's results were a bit of a mess. The group had to swallow a $3.3 billion writedown on the mainly US assets it sold to help finance a $10.5 billion shale deal last year. That, plus a 20 percent drop in achieved oil and gas prices compared to the third quarter of 2018 saw a 40 percent yearon-year dip in net profit. The hit to equity from the writedown and a 21 percent jump in net debt means gearing is now 31.7 percent, above BP's 20 percent to 30 percent comfort zone. Still, BP's call to exit Alaska in favour of markets which are cheaper and have a shorter production cycle, like the Permian Basin, is sound. BP is three-quarters of its way through a $10 billion disposal programme, which should help return gearing nearer 25 percent next year, and the group generated the same $6 billion of cash as the third quarter of 2018. Meanwhile, Looney has a trump card. BP is currently likely to pay shareholders $8.3 billion in 2020, Citi analysts reckon. Factoring in cash generated by its refining arm, it's distributing 21 percent of the cash flow from its exploration and production division. That's lower than the 27 percent and 31 percent likely in dividends and buybacks from France's Total and Exxon Mobil. And it's a lot lower than the 43 percent and 56 percent from Chevron and Royal Dutch Shell. Even if BP just paid out around the average level of its peers, it could afford to hand over another $2 billion - a 20 percent hike to its current dividend. The obvious reason for Looney to avoid doing this would be if BP was underinvesting relative to peers. But it isn't. Shell's dividend and buyback are 1.5 times its upstream capital expenditure, as forecast for 2020 by Citi. BP's is only 60 percent. The good news for Looney is that investors don't yet appear to be factoring all this in. The yield on BP's forecast dividend for 2019 is 6.4 percent, versus Shell's at 6.1 percent. If BP's decision trio suspend its payout in shares indicates future generosity, the shares will look even cheaper. The author is George Hay, a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The article was first published on Reuters Breakingviews. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Burning fossil fuels contributes most to global oxygen drop: study Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Antique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermathRose queens