China issued 4 billion euros ($1.11 billlion) of sovereign bonds in Paris on Tuesday, its first euro-denominated sovereign bonds in 15 years. The bonds will deepen China's financial ties with the EU and lower potential risks associated with US bonds, which dominate China's foreign bond holdings, according to experts. 
According to a statement from China's Ministry of Finance on Wednesday, 2 billion euros of 7-year bonds have been issued at a 0.197 percent debt yield, 1 billion euros of 12-year bonds with a 0.618 percent yield, and 1 billion euros of 20-year bonds at 1.078 percent. 
The Chinese government's issuance of sovereign bonds may soon be followed by company bonds from China, a boost in the European markets by offering a financial instrument with a good credit record and attractive interest rates, Lian Ping, chief economist of the Bank of Communications, told the Global Times on Wednesday. 
"As government bonds in European market today hit a new low, the Chinese sovereign bonds offer attractive options for investors," Lian said, "and the company bonds which may follow are likely to offer higher a bit high interest rates."

The 4 billion euros of bonds were met with great enthusiasm from international investors. Over 20 billion euros were subscribed to buy- five times the issuance amount. 57 percent of the investment comes from Europe, and 43 percent from non-European investors. 
Half of European governments issue bonds with a negative yield. In France, for example, the 10-year government bond has a negative 0.017 percent yield, and Germany's benchmark 10-year bond yield slid to negative 0.61 percent, reaching a record low. Globally, there are around $16.5 trillion of bonds outstanding. 
The issuance is also a clear message from the Chinese government that it is endeavoring to deepen financial ties with the EU, in an attempt to diversify its holdings of foreign bonds and reduce risks from overreliance on US bonds. 
"Although China does not intend to 'decouple' from the US financially, it is trying to bring more diversity to its foreign investments as uncertainties with the US has surged in recent years," Lian noted. "Currently, US bonds make up around 83 percent of China's foreign bond holdings, and stronger ties with the EU will lower financial risks as well as the costs for China."
 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China issues euro-denominated sovereign bonds in Paris Beijing to offer offshore eurobonds ZTE, Huawei issue domestic bonds Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Antique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermathRose queens