Indonesian Coordinating Minister for Maritime Affairs Luhut Binsar Pandjaitan addresses the parallel session "WTO Reform and Free Trade Agreements" of the second Hongqiao International Economic Forum in Shanghai, east China, Nov. 5, 2019. (Xinhua/Liu Ying)   

Yang Yuanqing (C), chairman and chief executive officer of Lenovo, speaks at the parallel session "WTO Reform and Free Trade Agreements" of the second Hongqiao International Economic Forum in Shanghai, east China, Nov. 5, 2019. (Xinhua/Liu Ying)   



Uzbekistan's Deputy Prime Minister Elyor Ganiev addresses the parallel session "WTO Reform and Free Trade Agreements" of the second Hongqiao International Economic Forum in Shanghai, east China, Nov. 5, 2019. (Xinhua/Liu Ying)   



Yang Yuanqing, chairman and chief executive officer of Lenovo, speaks at the parallel session "WTO Reform and Free Trade Agreements" of the second Hongqiao International Economic Forum in Shanghai, east China, Nov. 5, 2019. (Xinhua/Liu Ying)   



Zhang Yujiao (R), former chair and judge of WTO Appellate Body, speaks at the parallel session "WTO Reform and Free Trade Agreements" of the second Hongqiao International Economic Forum in Shanghai, east China, Nov. 5, 2019. (Xinhua/Liu Ying)   



Bertrand Austruy (C), general secretary and executive president of Danone, speaks at the parallel session "WTO Reform and Free Trade Agreements" of the second Hongqiao International Economic Forum in Shanghai, east China, Nov. 5, 2019. (Xinhua/Liu Ying)   



Bertrand Austruy, general secretary and executive president of Danone, speaks at the parallel session "WTO Reform and Free Trade Agreements" of the second Hongqiao International Economic Forum in Shanghai, east China, Nov. 5, 2019. (Xinhua/Liu Ying)   



Parallel session "WTO Reform and Free Trade Agreements" of the second Hongqiao International Economic Forum is held in Shanghai, east China, Nov. 5, 2019. (Xinhua/Liu Ying)   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  WTO reform should benefit low-income, developing countries: vice chairman of Boao Forum Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Golden Dragon Parade held in LAYear of the Rat stampSpectators dazzled at 131st Rose Parade