Police ride motorcycle in a drill held in Shenzhen, South China's Guangdong Province on Tuesday,with helicopters hovering over head. Photo: Courtesy of Shenzhen police Shenzhen, a city bordering Hong Kong, has launched a nationwide recruitment drive seeking 2,500 auxiliary police officers for duties including security patrols and law enforcement for criminal and economic offences. The job offers a considerable monthly salary of at least 10,000 yuan ($1,426) plus insurance and a bonus of between 2,000 to 50,000 yuan, according to the advertisement published on the WeChat account of the Shenzhen Public Security Bureau.  According to the job description, most of the auxiliary officers recruited will be assigned to carry out security patrol-related duties across the city, and some will be allocated to investigation teams to carry out law enforcement for economic and criminal offences. The Shenzhen auxiliary police is the country's first auxiliary police force empowered to carry out policing duties including security patrols, preventing or deterring crimes and maintaining public order at major public events, according to Shenzhen police bureau. The Shenzhen police have carried out several anti-riot drills since summer, mirroring the months-long, ongoing riots in Hong Kong, which have seen protesters throwing Molotov cocktails and iron bars at police.Unlike most official organs, the Shenzhen police took a more lighthearted approach in its advertisement."Your previous job may bring you flabby muscles, here we help you get V-cut abs. Don't leave any regrets for your youth because of being fat!" reads the advertisement. "Today's Shenzhen is welcoming another opportunity with the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area and a pilot demonstration area of socialism with Chinese characteristics. Choosing today's Shenzhen, you choose infinite possibilities in the future!" said the advertisement. Global Times 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Shenzhen police stage new drill using water cannons to deal with riot Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Youth climate strikeAntique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermath