US President Donald Trump speaks to reporters before leaving the White House in Washington D.C., the United States, on Oct. 25, 2019. (Photo by Ting Shen/Xinhua) US President Donald Trump said on Friday that he is considering attending Russia's Victory Day military parade next May though he is unsure whether he can do it due to its timing. "It is in the middle of our campaign season, but I will certainly think about it," Trump told reporters when he was asked if he would attend the event. 

Russian military cadets take part in a Victory Day parade in St. Petersburg, Russia, May 9, 2019. (Xinhua/Irina Motina)Trump, who has yet to visit Russia as US president, said he appreciates Russian President Vladimir Putin's invitation, saying it is "a very big deal celebrating the end of the war." "It is in the middle of the political season, so I will see if I can do it, but I would love to go if I could," he added. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in June that Putin had invited Trump to attend the Victory Day commemorative events in Moscow next May. 

Russian tanks are seen during a Victory Day parade in St. Petersburg, Russia, May 9, 2019. (Xinhua/Irina Motina)The 2020 events will mark the 75th anniversary of the Allied victory over Nazi Germany in 1945. Former US Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush attended the Moscow's Red Square parade in 1995 and 2005 respectively, while Barack Obama declined to show up for the 70th anniversary in 2015 due to the Crimea issue. 

Russian President Vladimir Putin chairs a Security Council meeting outside Moscow, Russia, on Aug. 5, 2019. (Sputnik/Handout via Xinhua)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Trump downplays impeachment inquiry as public hearings approach Trump weighs in on Bloomberg's likely presidential run; analysts split on his prospect Trump’s ex-attorney general Jeff Sessions seeks US Senate return Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Youth climate strikeAntique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermath