Photo: IC
Thousands gathering on a weekend day calling for a fresh referendum is hardly unusual in the UK these days, but not this one in central Glasgow earlier this month, which was calling for a new referendum for Scottish independence as early as 2020, only six years after the last "once in a generation" referendum. According to Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's First Minister and leader of the pro-independence, pro-EU SNP, "an independent Scotland is closer than it has ever been."It is, of course, campaign rhetoric for the December 12 general election, for which the SNP needs to rally Scottish voters behind its agenda. But how close is closer than it has ever been?Scotland was an independent kingdom once. Between the Celtic nation and its Anglo-Saxon neighbor to the south, many battles were fought and legends told over tortuous centuries, some of which have gained worldwide popularity. It was not until 1707 that a formal union of Scotland and England was forged as we know today. The union once served Scotland well. The Industrial Revolution, which was largely powered by the invention of James Watt, a Scot, and the rise of the British Empire gave Scotland a much bigger global stage. But the Scottish heritage stays on after three centuries, manifested by distinct ethnic, cultural, religious and legal traditions that the Scottish take much pride in. The empire is no more. Advent of the age of national independence since WWII and newly found European identity both contributed to the emergence of calls for greater autonomy and independence, and hence the birth of SNP and its rise to power. Strictly legally speaking, Scottish independence was once closer than today. A fully authorized referendum was held as recently as September 2014. During the referendum, 55 percent chose to stay within the union while 45 percent voted for independence. The central government, headed by Prime Minister David Cameron, had a comfortable win and moved on to copy and paste the "success story" for the Brexit issue. It turned out a lost cause from which the UK is still reeling. And the Scottish independence movement, once thought to have been thwarted for a generation, came back again, with similar sentiments, to lesser extents, in Northern Ireland and Wales too. EU-membership is front and center of the issue, and 62 percent of Scots voted "REMAIN" in the 2016 Brexit referendum, making Scotland the most pro-EU part of the UK. In comparison, only 55 percent voted in favor of "REMAIN" in the 2014 independence referendum. Vote against vote, more in Scotland prefer their European identity to their 300-year-old union with England. If another referendum for independence were held, its odds to pass is greater than ever. But making it happen is more difficult than ever. Though the UK has "united" in its name, it is a unitary state where local powers are derived from central authorities. A referendum on independence needs proper authorization from the central government and assent from both houses of parliament. The more likely it is to pass, the less likely it gets the green light. No British prime minister, Conservative or Labour, could afford losing Scotland, not even for democracy. Boris Johnson, the incumbent PM, has ruled out granting permission for a second vote on Scottish independence while he is Prime Minister. Labour in the opposition also considers another independence referendum not necessary or desirable. Then why did the 2014 referendum was allowed to happen in the first place?Because it was unlikely to pass in David Cameron's reckoning. His government traded Westminster assent for control of the referendum's timing and wording to secure its failure. At that time, a strongest argument against Scottish independence was no other than Scotland's loss of EU membership in the case of independence. As ironically as dramatically, the tide has turned in favor of independence in a Brexiting UK. The result of the 2016 referendum has rendered the earlier one unconvincing. Now that Johnson's Conservative Party is leading by a large margin, the future of Brexit is looming larger by the day. Should Brexit materialize in its current trajectory, calls for a second Scottish independence referendum will rise to prominence in UK's domestic politics. Westminster will have little choice but to deal with it despite great reluctance.Should Europhiles win in the general election and Brexit takes a new route, a second Brexit referendum will be poised to go. In 2012, David Cameron and Alex Salmond signed the Edinburgh Agreement that paved the way for the first Scottish Independence referendum. In the seven years and three prime ministers since, UK politics is almost all about the two referendums about Scotland and the EU membership. Down the road, these two issues and calls for a second referendum, about one issue or the other, and one decision against the other, still eclipse almost everything else. The jury is still out. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  UK PM says no to new Scottish independence referendum Majority now want Scottish independence, says new poll Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Western media creates illusion for human trafficking victimsBig baby makes debutChinese film debuts at DTLAFF