Godfrey Gao Photo: VCG
The death of Taiwan island actor Godfrey Gao on Wednesday while filming a sports entertainment show in Ningbo, East China's Zhejiang Province, has attracted public attention to sudden cardiac death and caused a flood of criticism on social media against physically demanding competitions that can put performers in danger.Gao, 35, collapsed early Wednesday morning while shooting "Chase Me," a program that requires contestants to run and undergo intense physical challenges produced by Zhejiang TV station (Zhejiang STV). Gao's family has flown to Zhejiang and will take Gao's body back to Taiwan on Thursday, media reported.  The program's producer said on Sina Weibo they gave Gao emergency medical attention before sending him to a hospital, where he died of cardiac arrest after several hours.Sudden cardiac death often happens to middle-aged people who have coronary heart diseases, Sun Hongtao, an associate chief physician at the Fuwai Cardiovascular Hospital in Beijing, told the Global Times on Wednesday.The disease reportedly claims about more than half a million lives in China each year.  Despite receiving emergency medical attention, the chance of survival was only about 20-30 percent, Sun said. "Entertainers are one of the groups with a high risk of sudden cardiac death as they often stay up late and don't have regular work and rest," Sun noted. It is very normal for TV show staff, including crew and stars, to stay up late into the night, according to an industry insider who requested anonymity reached by the Global Times.The employee said the stars even work 72 straight hours at times. "When staying late becomes part of a profession, when risking their lives becomes appropriate…who is going to protect who?" Chinese actress Song Jia said on Weibo after Gao's death. 

A performer climbs an inclined wall in the program Chase Me. Photo: Screenshot from YoukuGao's death has sparked heated online discussions on whether the TV show was excessively demanding for performers.Performers in "Chase Me" are required to run at night while being chased by professional athletes and even members of special police forces. They also have to quickly complete several highly demanding tests, such as climbing inclined walls with the help of a rope and lowering themselves from a 70-meter building using a pulley. "The producer should test stars' physical condition before inviting them on the show. They are responsible for the performers' lives!" a netizen said. The producers did not say what criteria they use to select contestants.   Some industry employees said Chinese TV outdoor reality shows tend to become challenging and dangerous with the aim to attract audiences. Insurances for stars on these shows have reached as high as 3 million yuan ($430,000), media reported. In 2013, an assistant of Chinese kungfu actor Shi Xiaolong fell into water and died in a diving program of Zhejiang STV. Many stars have also reportedly been hurt in the station's popular show, "Keep Running."A poll conducted by the China News Week magazine on Weibo after Gao's death shows that more than 930,000 respondents agreed that entertainment shows should not set highly dangerous challenges. Nearly 300,000 agreed that program producers should train contestants in advance. About 1.3 million Weibo users responded to the poll. Gao ranked seventh on the 100 Most Handsome Faces of 2016 released by the American film critics group TC Candler.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Beijing to allow foreign investment in entertainment facilities amid trade war Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims