Photo:Screengrab of Sina WeiboA hip-hop video talking about the violent situation in Hong Kong has gone viral on Chinese social media with many netizens saying that it shows young people's reflections on the double standards used by Western media when reporting the riots in Hong Kong. Tianfu Shibian, or CD REV as it calls itself in English, a hip-hop band from Southwest China's Sichuan Province, made the rap song, titled Hong Kong's Fall, which went viral online and sparked discussions, especially when the official website and account of People's Daily and the Communist Youth League reposted them. A webpage on Sina Weibo, China's Twitter-like social media, with the hashtag "Hip-hop MV for Hong Kong" had been viewed more than 15.7 million times as of press time. Many netizens said the videos use rapping in English to satirize US politicians and media's hypocrisy when talking about what is happening in Hong Kong. Hong Kong's Fall talks about rioters in Hong Kong using democracy as an excuse to hurt people who have different opinions. The video had been viewed more than 20 million times on Weibo as of press time."Yeah. I'm talking about the American hypocrisy. They know nothing about love, just wars and casualties," read the lyrics.The video intertwines footage of violent activities in Hong Kong, including rioters setting an elderly man on fire. Wang Zixin, leader of the band, told the Global Times that it took them only half a day to write the song."I read news about Hong Kong every day and feel furious about the violent activities of black-clad rioters… we want to use some sharp words to talk about American hypocrisy," Wang said, noting that many netizens left messages on the band's official Sina Weibo account and admired their efforts. The video has also been posted in overseas social media and Wang said that overseas netizens showed support as well. "We sing in English about what many Chinese young people think about the current situation in Hong Kong. Criticizing the government has become a kind of political correctness in the US, which is not right to us. I think rappers can also use their songs to promote positive energy in society," Wang said.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Chinese fans desert SK pop star for supporting HK rioters HK district council elections result needs rational analysis Pan-democracy win should end violence in HK Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims