Palestinian militants stand guard in front of the house of Islamic Jihad leader Baha Abu al-Atta after an Israeli attack in Gaza City, Nov. 12, 2019. Baha Abu al-Atta, a senior militant and leader of al-Quds Brigades, the armed wing of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad in the Gaza Strip, and his wife were killed earlier Tuesday in an Israeli aerial attack on their house in eastern Gaza city. (Photo by Mohammed Dahman/Xinhua)Israel said militants in the Gaza Strip fired rockets at Israeli cities on Tuesday morning following its killing of a senior Islamic Jihad commander. The rare rocket attack targeted Holon and Rishon LeTsion, both south of Tel Aviv, a coastal city in central Israel, a military spokesperson said, adding that the Iron Dome anti-rocket system intercepted the rockets. The rockets triggered sirens across towns and cities in southern and central Israel. The attack came after Israeli forces killed Baha Abu al-Atta, a senior commander with the Palestinian Islamic Jihad group, in a predawn attack on his house in the Shejaiya district in Gaza. 

Militants in the Gaza Strip fire rockets to Israeli cities on Nov. 12, 2019, following its killing of a senior Islamic Jihad commander. Baha Abu al-Atta, a senior militant and leader of al-Quds Brigades, the armed wing of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad in the Gaza Strip, and his wife were killed earlier Tuesday in an Israeli aerial attack on their house in eastern Gaza city. (Photo by Yasser Qudih/Xinhua)Gaza's health ministry confirmed that Abu al-Atta's wife was also killed in the attack and three other people were injured. The operation was authorized by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli army said in a statement. "Abu al-Atta was responsible for most of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad's activity in the Gaza Strip and was a ticking bomb," according to the statement. 

A Palestinian inspects the damaged house of Islamic Jihad leader Baha Abu al-Atta after an Israeli attack in Gaza City, Nov. 12, 2019. Baha Abu al-Atta, a senior militant and leader of al-Quds Brigades, the armed wing of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad in the Gaza Strip, and his wife were killed earlier Tuesday in an Israeli aerial attack on their house in eastern Gaza city. (Photo by Mohammed Dahman/Xinhua)Israel was preparing for an escalation, declaring an emergency situation in southern communities for fear of revenge attacks. The military deployed more forces in the area. Schools were closed, all trains suspended, and residents ordered to stay indoors or in the protected area. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Israel-Gaza tension escalates after Israel's killing of Palestinian militant commander Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Youth climate strikeAntique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermath