Chinese netizens were outraged on Thursday about a UBS report that used distasteful and racist language to analyze China's inflation and called for putting the Swiss bank on the Chinese Unreliable Entity List despite an apology for what it calls its "innocently intended comment."   The report on China's latest consumer price index (CPI), seen by the Global Times earlier on Thursday morning, titled "Very Normal Inflation," said Chinese consumer prices rose due to sick pigs. "Does it matter? It matters if you are a Chinese pig. It matters if you like eating pork in China," wrote economist Paul Donovan. The report sparked outrage among Chinese netizens calling for an official apology from the Swiss bank.  "We apologize unreservedly for any misunderstanding caused by these innocently intended comments by Paul Donovan. We have removed the audio comment from circulation," UBS China told the Global Times on Thursday, noting that to be clear, this comment was about inflation and Chinese consumer prices rising, which was driven by higher prices for pork.Donovan is the chief economist at UBS Global Wealth Management and is responsible for identifying key economic trends and explaining them, according to his LinkedIn page. He has been working at UBS for more than 26 years. The description sparked anger among Chinese netizens, who called for UBS to apologize.UBS' webpage linking to the report could not be accessed when the Global Times tried to get more details about it. UBS, the first fully licensed foreign-invested securities firm in China, has become the first foreign bank to increase its stake to gain majority control of a securities joint venture in China in December 2018. The Switzerland-based bank earlier received approval from the China Securities Regulatory Commission to increase its shareholding in its securities joint venture in China, and UBS Securities Co has increased its shareholding from 24.99 percent to 51 percent.A netizen with the nickname Xiyoufodongyoudao suggested on Weibo that China should stop cooperation with UBS and the firm should be put on China's "unreliable entity list."China announced on May 31 that it would create an "Unreliable Entity List" of foreign companies and individuals that threaten the interests of Chinese companies.The UBS had not responded to a request concerning the issue sent by the Global Times on Thursday morning. Although the report is inaccessible from UBS' official website, the report can still be seen on other sites such as world-news-monitor.com. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Swiss bank UBS apologizes after issuing a racist report on China’s inflation China’s CPI up 2.7% year-on-year in May, hitting 15-month high: official data UBS economist sees 70% chance of China-US deal in H2 Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Roaring dirt bikesContribution remembered