Vice president of TME, Tsai Chun Pan Photos: Courtesy of TencentTencent Music Entertainment Group (TME) kicked off the Shanghai International Film Festival summit meeting themed "Uprising of BGM (background music) & OST (original sound track)  in Film & TV" in Shanghai on Monday. Focusing on the assembly effect that music has on website flow and the internationalization and standardization of the Chinese film and television industry, the summit meeting invited guests and experts from the field of film, television and music, to discuss the current situation and the development insight of BGM and OST in Chinese film and television. Vice president of TME and director of content cooperation and copyright management, Tsai Chun Pan, attended the summit meeting and gave a speech.TME is the leading online music entertainment platform in China that offers online music and music-centric social entertainment services through China's four famous music mobile apps - QQ Music, Kugou Music, Kuwo Music and WeSing - to over 800 million highly diverse and engaged users. Aimed at producing high-quality music, breaking the collaboration boundary between music, film and television production, and integrating the best qualities of music, film and television industries, in August 27, 2018, Tencent established the "Video & Audio Plus" alliance. It provides a one-stop service for both music and the film and TV industries. Until now, the "Video & Audio Plus" alliance has co-produced over 20 films and TV series as well as more than 100 pieces of BGM and OST. The market coverage rate of TME film and TV OST is more than 90 percent.Three round tables focusing on flow, marketing and internationalization were held at the summit meeting. Pan pointed out that lacking a sound and standard publicity mechanism is the key reason for the slow development of China's music industry, and standardization is the requirement if Chinese film, TV and music want to tackle the global market. He said that the alliance will continue to promote the standardized development of China's music industry and activate the "internationalization" gene of China's film, TV, and music."Traditionally, the collaboration between music platforms and film or TV industries is through purchasing copyrights and authorization. The establishment of the 'Video & Audio Plus' alliance can provide a new mode of collaboration," Pan told the Global Times. "It simplifies the collaboration process and produces more music IPs by integrating the best resources from both sides. The big data based on the music platform provides a direct reflection of users' preferences in film and TV BGM and OST so that we can make our music according to the audiences' tastes."Pan hopes that the "Video & Audio Plus" alliance will play a role as a neutral and objective platform. "We will try to uplift the user experience of our platform. We will definitely let our audiences be the judge. They can grade the work after they listen to it, so that we can provide our partners and audiences with a real reaction," Pan told the Global Times.Pan's ambition is more than that. He also wants the alliance to change the priority level of BGM creation and make BGM creation a high-priority goal. "In this way, music can also help with the polishing of plots as well as filming, which will benefit the overall results of film and TV series." 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China's Tencent Music makes NYSE debut Tencent Music growing rapidly but valuation for upcoming IPO still seems high Tencent Music Entertainment Video & Audio + Alliance Established Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Roaring dirt bikesContribution remembered