The Cuban Ambassador to China Miguel Ángel Ramírez (third from right), the Mexican Ambassador to China José Luis Bernal (second from right) and the Uruguayan Ambassador to China Fernando Lugris (third from left) take a group photo at the event. Photo: Yin Yeping/GT

A visit looks at a painting. Photo: Yin Yeping/GTThe launch of the 2019 Latin America and Caribbean Art Exhibition took place at the China World Art Museum in Beijing on June 14, highlighting 48 works by Latin American and Caribbean artists. As an annual event, the art exhibition aims to showcase the cultural diversity  of the Latin American and Caribbean regions. At this year's exhibition, the artworks of the artists from Costa Rica, Cuba, Mexico and Uruguay are on display. The Cuban Ambassador to China Miguel Ángel Ramírez said that he is honored to participate in the inauguration of the exhibition, in which the artworks of the Cuban artist Li Dominguez Fong was being exhibited. "We launch this exhibition to showcase that art is not only a reflection of diversity in society, language and culture but also a bridge connecting countries together," the ambassador said.The Mexican Ambassador to China José Luis Bernal also gave a speech. "The Mexican artist Plinio Avila comes here to showcase his chart painting with landscapes. These paintings were originally created in China, and by doing these paintings, the artist added a multicultural perspective into his works," Bernal said.In the speech by the Uruguayan Ambassador to China Fernando Lugris, he talked about his good perspectives in cultural exchanges. "Since Uruguay participated in the Belt and Road Initiative, our country has become a gate to Latin America. Due to the support of the Chinese cultural groups, our relations have been closer and we have decided to bring more Uruguayan artists to China for exhibitions," he said.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Latin America has lots of space for BRI cooperation, says IDB president Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Roaring dirt bikesContribution remembered