Ukrainian prisoners arrive at the airport in Kiev, Ukraine, June 28, 2019. Four Ukrainian prisoners have been transfered to the Minsk airport on Friday from eastern Ukraine by representatives of the insurgent Donetsk and Luhansk regions for hand-over to Kiev, according to the Belarusian Foreign Ministry. (Xinhua/Sergey)  

Ukrainian prisoners hug their relatives after arriving at the airport in Kiev, Ukraine, June 28, 2019. Four Ukrainian prisoners have been transfered to the Minsk airport on Friday from eastern Ukraine by representatives of the insurgent Donetsk and Luhansk regions for hand-over to Kiev, according to the Belarusian Foreign Ministry. (Xinhua/Sergey) Four Ukrainian prisoners have been transfered to the Minsk airport on Friday from eastern Ukraine by representatives of the insurgent Donetsk and Luhansk regions for hand-over to Kiev, according to the Belarusian Foreign Ministry. Ministry spokesperson Anatoly Glaz told reporters the Ukrainian prisoners were handed over to representatives of Viktor Medvedchuk, a supervisor on the side of the Ukrainian government for prisoner exchanges. 

A Ukrainian prisoner(C) arrives at the airport in Kiev, Ukraine, June 28, 2019. Four Ukrainian prisoners have been transfered to the Minsk airport on Friday from eastern Ukraine by representatives of the insurgent Donetsk and Luhansk regions for hand-over to Kiev, according to the Belarusian Foreign Ministry. (Xinhua/Sergey)"The return of people held captives for a long time is a noble work," Glaz said. "And this is happening on the Belarusian land." The spokesperson said his country is ready to play a role in returning peace to Ukraine. The Belarusian capital of Minsk has been a major site for peace negotiations regarding eastern Ukraine.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  French, German FMs urge Russia to take action to ease tension in Ukraine Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Many frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5GChinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US Census