Visitors browse new Huawei smartphones at the company's booth at CES Asia 2019, in Shanghai on Tuesday. The exhibition features cutting-edge technologies such as 5G, artificial intelligence and the Internet of Things. Photo: AFPUS Senator Marco Rubio is reportedly trying to stop Huawei from seeking patent royalties in US courts in a continued effort to destroy Huawei. This move will tarnish the US' reputation as a fair market and hurt the spirit of the law. And the old world, led by conservative American elites, will very likely  collapse if the new legislation filed by Rubio is passed by the US Congress, analysts and lawyers warned. Rubio, seen as a Republican hawk focused on China, filed legislation on Monday to prevent the Chinese tech giant from seeking damages for patent related issues, Reuters reported on Tuesday. The move followed Huawei's demand for $1 billion in license fees from major US carrier Verizon, the report said. The act states that companies on the watch list of the US government will not be able to seek relief on intellectual property rights (IPR)-related issues under US law, such as bringing legal action over patent infringement, Reuters reported. Chinese internet users and analysts called it a "manic move," and a cunning way to strike against an individual company. "It's more than the Iron Curtain age; it just shows how stupid today's US politicians are," a netizen who goes by Huibaijiao said on China's Twitter-like Sina Weibo."Such an act, if passed, would violate the basic principles of the rule of law and deprive affected companies the fundamental right of access to the courts," Yue, a US-based lawyer who has been following the Huawei matter for months, told the Global Times on Tuesday. Some Chinese netizens suggested that if the act is passed, China should learn a lesson from the US by banning American tech companies from seeking IPR damages in China, which would result in huge losses for companies like Qualcomm and Intel. Huawei has 56,492 active patents in telecommunications and networks, as it has been investing heavily in research and development over the past few decades, according to media reports, citing a report from AcclaimIP. The Chinese company is now asking Verizon to pay licensing fees for about 230 of its patents, the Wall Street Journal reported on June 12, and some analysts consider it a stepped-up effort against the US government ban.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Rubio’s proposal on Huawei patents ridiculous Republican hawk files new legislation against Huawei, a manic move to damage US fundamentals Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Roaring dirt bikesContribution remembered