A robot with a 5G sign is displayed at a China Mobile event in Guangzhou, South China's Guangdong Province on December 7. Photo: VCGChina will release 5G business licenses to its three major telecom carriers shortly, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) said Monday. The move will catapult the country into a serious 5G industrial revolution, according to industry insiders.  As 5G is very much faster than 4G, the official licenses will place the three carriers at the forefront of the global 5G race, as the technology is expected to accelerate the transformation of traditional industries and give rise to a myriad of new applications and business models.The new technology will create tens of thousands of new jobs, and according to industry insiders. It is expected to create new value of between 900-1,300 billion yuan ($130.3 billion to 188.2 billion) in the next two years in China. Industry insiders predicted that the official distribution of 5G business licenses will take place later this week, likely on Friday. "There will be an announcement very soon," an official from the MIIT, who asked for anonymity, told the Global Times on Monday. The licenses will allow China to take a global lead in using 5G technology to revolutionize traditional industrial assembly lines, and this experience and know-how will spread to other partner economies that have contracted to use 5G technology. "This is basically a green light for telecom companies to make final preparations to roll out commercial 5G," said Fu Liang, a Beijing-based telecom industry analyst, although he noted it might be some time before 5G enters full use.The MIIT is likely to issue licenses at the same time to all three major telecom operators in the country - China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom - as they have been conducting trial tests in Chinese major cities in recent months, according to analysts."Issuing the licenses means everything is almost ready," Fu said. Currently, the big three carriers have been deploying 5G networks. China Mobile is projected to build 30,000 to 50,000 5G base stations by the end of 2019, with total investment of 17.2 billion yuan, according to media reports.China Telecom will build about 20,000 base stations and invest in total 9 billion yuan while China Unicom plans to establish about 20,000 base stations with total investment of about 6 to 8 billion yuan, the reports said. As part of network trials, 5G-powered phone calls have successfully been made in regions including South China's Guangdong and East China's Fujian provinces, as well as in Beijing and Shanghai municipalities. Role of Chinese firms Chinese telecom equipment providers and carriers are also major contributors to 5G patents and standards proposals, which are indispensable for the global push to roll out 5G.  Huawei Technologies and ZTE Corp are among the top five 5G standard essential patent (SEP) owners worldwide, with 1,554 and 1,208 respectively. Meanwhile, Huawei is the largest contributor to 5G technical standards, Berlin-based market intelligence platform IPlytics said in a report released in April. "China's contribution to 5G technology development also reflects the rapid progress the country has achieved in 5G compared to other countries, and it has also been exploring various application scenarios, including autonomous driving, virtual reality, and smart cities," Li Zhen, an industry analyst at Beijing-based CCID Consulting, told the Global Times on Monday. China is now among the global leaders in 5G roll-out, in addition to the US, South Korea and Australia, and the official release of the business licenses will ensure it will maintain its leading position, the analyst said.  Win 5G race Chinese 5G-related companies rallied on the stock market on Monday, with shares in ZTE surging nearly 6 percent and shares in Fiberhome Telecommunication Tech Co up 4 percent. The MIIT also sent out a signal that China is not scared of the US-led crackdown on Huawei, which is a major driving force in global 5G development, and the country will continue competing to lead the 5G race at a firm pace, analysts said. "As the US treats China as a competitor, it is only normal that [China] also speeds up a bit accordingly," Jiang Junmu, chief writer at telecom industry news website c114.com.cn, told the Global Times on Monday. Chinese players are pushing forward 5G rollout not only in China but also in overseas markets. Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad said that Malaysia tries to make use of Huawei technology as much as possible, and the Chinese vendor has already launched 5G trials in the Southeast Asian country, CNN reported on Friday. In spite of the US-led global clampdown on Huawei, the Chinese firm helped UK carrier EE to air a live tech segment on a BBC morning news show, the first consumer use in the local market. Continuing to open up and collaborating with major players will help Huawei to expand, which will also help China to lead in the 5G race, analysts said. "China will also include other companies in the rollout of 5G, unlike the US," Fu said, noting that Huawei, ZTE, Ericson and Nokia will all have the same treatment and opportunities in China. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Huawei expands 5G footprint in Europe despite US crackdown ZTE to invest more on R&D of 5G chip and edge computing US blacklists Huawei in face of uncertaintly in coming 5G era 5G revolution to remodel international politics Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Contribution rememberedChild porn arrests shock S.California Chinese communityUtah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental Railroad