The Sculpting the Souls exhibition at the National Museum of China Photo: Xu Liuliu/GTA group of experts from home and aboard discussed the art style and philosophy behind the sculptures by Chinese artist Wu Weishan at the National Museum of China on Friday. The symposium focused on Wu's use of China's "liberal style" of art, especially when approaching important figures from history such as German scholar Karl Marx and China's Confucius. Some scholars at the symposium proposed that the artist's liberal style, or freehand style, is the result of his examinations into the cultural anxiety that has been growing in China since the 1980s. Wang Yichuan from Peking University said that the focal point of the artist's sculptures is how he inserts his spirit into his materials and forms a shape that surprises viewers. The artist' work is well-known at home and abroad. His Karl Marx stands in Marx's hometown of Trier, Germany, while A Dialogue Transcends Time and Space: Da Vinci and Qi Baishi is part of the permanent exhibit at the National Museum of Rome in Italy. Very different from Western sculptures, Wu's liberal sculptures are not focused on outside appearance, noted Zhang Xiaoling, vice president of China National Academy of Painting. "Theirs is about a visual system, while ours is about a feeling in the heart... Wu's sculptures are closely connected to China's traditional philosophy," Zhang said. The ongoing exhibition Sculpting the Souls: An Exhibition on Wu Weishan's Sculpture Arts at the National Museum of China features 179 of the artist's artworks across four sections. Among them are group sculptures The Nanjing Masscare and Laozi and Confucius.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Copa starts anew in quarters: Messi  NCPA hosts three-day-long Beijing Forums for Performing Arts 2019  NASA starts new efforts to resume heat probe to study inner temperature of Mars Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US CensusChalk festivalRoaring dirt bikes