ICBC Aviation LeasingChinese lessor ICBC Aviation Leasing Co said on Wednesday that it  signed a MOU during the Paris Air Show with a Japanese leasing firm to develop a strategic alliance to offer financing products to airlines globally. ICBC Aviation Leasing also said it signed a MOU with GA Telesis LLC during the show on building a marketing alliance assisting airlines in their fleet renewal activities by trading out of mature or end of life aircraft and providing spare engine financing and leasing solutions.Qatar Airways Qatar Airways has won four prestigious prizes at this year's 2019 Skytrax World Airline Awards, including the highest accolade of 'World's Best Airline' - becoming the only airline in the competition's history to win it five times (2011, 2012, 2015, 2017 and 2019).The airline has been named 'Best Airline in the Middle East' for a third successive year, while it has retained the 'World's Best Business Class' accolade for the fourth year in succession. In retaining its 'World's Best Business Class Seat' award for its patented Qsuite product, the airline beat strong competition from all over the world.Jiangxi ExpressJiangxi Express is recruiting international artists  to come up with painting designs for their planes that reflect the characteristics of seven cities it flies to, namely: Nanchang, Ganzhou, Jingdezhen, Ji'an, Shangrao, Yichun and Jiujiang in East China's Jiangxi Province. The company said the design plan will include the logo of the airline and the winner will get a chance to visit Switzerland. The painting design collection is expected to be finished by the end of August this year. The short-haul airline now has five PC-12NG planes and plans to introduce ten more aircraft by the end of this year. Air TanzaniaAir Tanzania will open a route from Guangzhou, South China's Guangdong Province to Dar es Salaam in September this year. The route, operating three times a week, will stop over in Bangkok.In order to attract Chinese tourists, the Tanzanian government will launch an e-visa system in August of this year.China is the fifth largest source of international tourism in Tanzania, the Tanzanian ambassador to China Mbelwa Kairuki said at the promotional event held in Beijing on Wednesday, and that he hopes Chinese's trading partners will have more opportunities to learn about the tourism resources in the country. BoeingBoeing, on Monday, said that growing passenger volumes and increasing airplane retirements will drive the need for 44,040 new jets, valued at $6.8 trillion over the next two decades, up 3 percent from a year ago. The global commercial airplane fleet will also hopes to be the provider of aviation services valued at $9.1 trillion, leading to a total commercial market opportunity of $16 trillion by 2038. Of the new airplane deliveries, the forecast estimates that 44 percent will go toward replacing aging aircraft while the rest will accommodate traffic growth. Together, the new jets support an industry where passenger traffic will grow an average of 4.6 percent  and cargo traffic will grow by an average 4.2 percent.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Boeing wins massive 737 Max order, 3 months after global grounding Chinese airlines seek compensation from Boeing over 737 Max grounding US aviation regulators meet international counterparts over Boeing 737 Max Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Roaring dirt bikesContribution remembered