Maxime de Boni, vice president of research and innovation of L'Oréal China Photo: Courtesy of L'Oréal China The market size of the world's skincare products is expected to reach $183.03 billion by 2025, according to a new report by Grand View Research, an India-and US-based market research and consulting company. The increasingly strong and diverse skincare demands of global consumers have also driven international skincare giants to invest in discovering the power of skin microbiome research to protect skin.L'Oréal, the world's largest beauty group, recently shared its latest findings of its 15 years of skin microbiome research.At L'Oréal's China Research and Innovation Center in Shanghai, Maxime de Boni, vice president of research and innovation of L'Oréal China, said the company has been investing in the research and development of the most advanced skincare science, particularly microbiomes."Skin microbiome research will set off another revolution in global cosmetic innovation that will help us break through efficacy limits through a completely fresh perspective," said Tarun Chopra, head of L'Oréal Asia Microbiome Center of Excellence.Chopra added that skin microbiome research combines different disciplines, including cosmetics, biology and medicine, and it therefore will present new opportunities for cosmetics innovation. According to official information released by L'Oréal China, L'Oréal's Research and Innovation Center has carried out more than 57 clinical studies in 12 domains and published 45 scientific publications on skin microbiome research over the past 15 years.Invisible powerWhat is the skin microbiome? And how would the skin microbiome affect the condition of our skin? According to Chopra, the body's skin microbiomes are ecosystems with highly large and diverse populations of microorganisms, such as bacteria, fungi, and viruses."You are not a human, you are a colony of bacteria on the move. Every day we live with around ten trillion microorganisms that weigh nearly two kilograms," Chopra added. He also noted that recent studies have shown that many skin disorders, such as sensitive skin and allergies are linked with changes or an imbalance of the microbiomes on our skin. "The balance of the skin microbiome is regulated by different factors. Among them are the host's physiology and immune system, the area of the body, the presence of sebum, the environment, and lifestyle," Chopra added.Marc-André Selosse, a professor who specializes in botany and mycology at the National Museum of Natural History in Paris, said that the microbial revolution has already been witnessed in many sectors. "In industry, bacteria have been used to develop self-healing concrete, such as smart construction bricks that are able to generate heat or electricity as well as breathable or luminescent fabrics," Selosse said. He said that this method is also being utilized in the cosmetic industry. "The skin microbiome, host to a large microbial population, is involved in the majority of skin disorders and is able to interact with our skin and its various functions," Selosse said. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  L’Oréal China boss hails commitment to opening-up  New L’Oréal China reinforces its commitment to driving a beautiful China Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Roaring dirt bikesContribution remembered