An Israeli missile strike targeted a Syrian air base in central Syria on Sunday, state TV reported. The Syrian air defenses intercepted two of the missiles that targeted the T-4 air base in the central province of Homs. One soldier was killed and two others wounded in the attack, said the report, adding that a weapon depot was hit and damage was caused to buildings in the facility. The attack is the second Israeli strike to target Syrian sites within 24 hours. A total of three Syrian soldiers were killed and seven others wounded on Sunday by Israeli missile strikes on military sites in southern Syria. A military statement said the first Israeli strike started at 3:22 a.m. local time Sunday and targeted military sites in the southwestern countryside of the capital Damascus. It said the Syrian air defenses intercepted some of the missiles, which came from the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights. Less than an hour later, the Israelis renewed their attack by firing several missiles on the eastern countryside of Quneitra province near the Golan Heights, killing three soldiers and wounding seven others, said SANA. Israel has repeatedly targeted Syrian military sites on pretext that it's targeting military sites that belong to Iranian-backed militia groups. The Syrian government has repeatedly charged that Israel supports the terror groups in Syria and its repeated strikes are nothing but a way to lift the rebels' morale. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  3 Syrian soldiers killed in fresh Israeli missile strikes in Syria  Syria's air defenses intercept Israeli missile strikes in Damascus Syrian air defenses intercept Israeli missiles targeting Damascus: army Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Contribution rememberedChild porn arrests shock S.California Chinese communityUtah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental Railroad