The American Apparel & Footwear Association and four other trade associations representing the entire US footwear supply chain have urged the Trump administration to refrain from imposing new tariffs on footwear imports from China. "The US footwear domestic manufacturing and US footwear import industries stand united in expressing our grave concerns (that) these tariffs won't help any segment of our industry," the trade associations wrote in a letter to US President Donald Trump on Thursday. "The proposed additional tariff on footwear, footwear components, and footwear machinery would do untold damage to our industry, ultimately affecting consumers in a negative way and hamstringing what has traditionally been a hugely successful part of the American economy," the letter said. The Trump administration early this month dialed up the additional tariffs on 200 billion US dollars worth of Chinese imports from 10 percent to 25 percent, and threatened to levy duties of 25 percent on some 300 billion dollars' worth of Chinese products yet to be hit. The trade groups noted that many inputs necessary for footwear manufacturing are not available in the United States and are sourced through China. "An additional 25 percent duty burden on these components threatens the viability of domestic production," they argued. "We have significant concerns that this latest action will have unintended consequences that will damage our industry for years to come," they warned, urging the Trump administration to reconsider the tariff proposal. The latest request came 10 days after 173 footwear companies and retailers signed a similar open letter to the US president, asking him to reconsider proposed tariffs on shoes made in China. "Your proposal to add tariffs on all imports from China is asking the American consumer to foot the bill. It is time to bring this trade war to an end," they said. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Contribution rememberedChild porn arrests shock S.California Chinese communityUtah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental Railroad