The Philippines' first Traditional Chinese Medical (TCM) center was opened here in Manila on Monday to help the Filipinos receive better medical services through the traditional Chinese treatment. The Philippines TCM health care center, located at High Pointe Medical Hub in Mandaluyong City, Metro Manila, is the first-ever TCM medical center in the country as well as the first Philippine TCM center in partnership with China's Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medical (FJUTCM). Cultural counselor of the Chinese embassy to the Philippines Tian Shanting, President of FJUTCM Li Candong, and President of TCM health care center Zheng Qiming witnessed the unveiling of the center during the opening ceremony held on Monday morning. Li hoped that the center will be developed as a demonstration for overseas TCM centers with joint efforts by all parties, and more achievements will be made in China-Philippine cooperation in TCM. "The opening of the Philippine TCM health care center, as a symbol of the two countries' ties, will advance cooperation and collaboration in matters relating to health," said Li, adding that the center enables the Philippine and Chinese doctors and therapists to boost cooperation in the fields of traditional medicine. The FJUTCM, founded in 1958, carried out overseas TCM exchanges since the 1980s and now has formed a multi-level and multi-form overseas TCM education pattern, according to Li. "Apart from medical treatment and rehabilitation, the center will also help spread TCM culture in the Philippines," Zheng said, adding that the center is also working for the two-way TCM exchanges for both Philippine and Chinese doctors, therapists, and researchers. "The center covers an area of 250 square meters and offers a variety of TCM remedies by five doctors and therapists, including one specialist assigned from FJUTCM," he added. The center now focuses on treatment in acupuncture, moxibustion and cupping. The modern scientific management and computerized medical equipment have also been introduced in every process from patient registration, TCM diagnosis to prescription dispensation. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  TCM ready for expanding international market Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Roaring dirt bikesContribution remembered