People wade through a waterlogged road at Banlan Township in Rongan County, Liuzhou City, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, June 9, 2019. Guangxi's meteorological bureau on Sunday evening upgraded the meteorological disaster emergency response to level-II after rainstorms starting Tuesday caused flooding in several cities. (Xinhua/Tan Kaixing)  

A vehicle runs on a waterlogged road at Lingui District in Guilin, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, June 9, 2019. Guangxi's meteorological bureau on Sunday evening upgraded the meteorological disaster emergency response to level-II after rainstorms starting Tuesday caused flooding in several cities. (Xinhua/Huang Yongdan)  

Aerial photo taken on June 9, 2019 shows flood-hit Dajiang Township of Rongan County, Liuzhou City, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. Guangxi's meteorological bureau on Sunday evening upgraded the meteorological disaster emergency response to level-II after rainstorms starting Tuesday caused flooding in several cities. (Xinhua/Tan Kaixing)  

Rescuers transfer people at Zhaojia Village of Quanzhou County in Guilin, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, June 9, 2019. Guangxi's meteorological bureau on Sunday evening upgraded the meteorological disaster emergency response to level-II after rainstorms starting Tuesday caused flooding in several cities. (Xinhua/Wang Zichuang)  

Rescuers transfer an aged woman at Zhaojia Village of Quanzhou County in Guilin, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, June 9, 2019. Guangxi's meteorological bureau on Sunday evening upgraded the meteorological disaster emergency response to level-II after rainstorms starting Tuesday caused flooding in several cities. (Xinhua/Wang Zichuang)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Over 30,000 residents affected by rainstorms, floods in Guangxi Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Contribution rememberedChild porn arrests shock S.California Chinese communityUtah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental Railroad