Britain's Queen Elizabeth II comes back to Buckingham Palace during the Trooping the Colour ceremony to mark her 93rd birthday in London, Britain, on June 8, 2019. Queen Elizabeth celebrated her official 93rd birthday in London Saturday, with a family gathering on the balcony at Buckingham Palace. (Xinhua/Ray Tang)   

Soldiers march down the Mall during the Trooping the Colour ceremony to mark Queen Elizabeth II's 93rd birthday in London, Britain,on June 8, 2019. Queen Elizabeth celebrated her official 93rd birthday in London Saturday, with a family gathering on the balcony at Buckingham Palace. (Xinhua/Ray Tang)   

Britain's Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex, and his wife Meghan Markle, Duchess of Sussex, depart from Buckingham Palace during the Trooping the Colour ceremony to mark Queen Elizabeth II's 93rd birthday in London, Britain, on June 8, 2019. Queen Elizabeth celebrated her official 93rd birthday in London Saturday, with a family gathering on the balcony at Buckingham Palace. (Xinhua/Ray Tang)   

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II (C) and her family members are seen on the balcony of Buckingham Palace during the Trooping the Colour ceremony to mark her 93rd birthday in London, Britain, on June 8, 2019. Queen Elizabeth celebrated her official 93rd birthday in London Saturday, with a family gathering on the balcony at Buckingham Palace. (Xinhua/Ray Tang)   

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II departs from Buckingham Palace during the Trooping the Colour ceremony to mark her 93rd birthday in London, Britain, on June 8, 2019. Queen Elizabeth celebrated her official 93rd birthday in London Saturday, with a family gathering on the balcony at Buckingham Palace. (Xinhua/Ray Tang)   

People gather in front of Buckingham Palace during the Trooping the Colour ceremony to mark Queen Elizabeth II's 93rd birthday in London, Britain, on June 8, 2019. Queen Elizabeth celebrated her official 93rd birthday in London Saturday, with a family gathering on the balcony at Buckingham Palace. (Xinhua/Ray Tang)   

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II departs from Buckingham Palace during the Trooping the Colour ceremony to mark her 93rd birthday in London, Britain, on June 8, 2019. Queen Elizabeth celebrated her official 93rd birthday in London Saturday, with a family gathering on the balcony at Buckingham Palace. (Xinhua/Ray Tang)   

Camilla (L), Duchess of Cornwall, and Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, arrive at Buckingham Palace during the Trooping the Colour ceremony to mark Queen Elizabeth II's 93rd birthday in London, Britain, on June 8, 2019. Queen Elizabeth celebrated her official 93rd birthday in London Saturday, with a family gathering on the balcony at Buckingham Palace. (Xinhua/Ray Tang)   

Camilla (L), Duchess of Cornwall, and Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, depart from Buckingham Palace during the Trooping the Colour ceremony to mark Queen Elizabeth II's 93rd birthday in London, Britain, on June 8, 2019. Queen Elizabeth celebrated her official 93rd birthday in London Saturday, with a family gathering on the balcony at Buckingham Palace. (Xinhua/Ray Tang)   

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II comes back to Buckingham Palace during the Trooping the Colour ceremony to mark her 93rd birthday in London, Britain, on June 8, 2019. Queen Elizabeth celebrated her official 93rd birthday in London Saturday, with a family gathering on the balcony at Buckingham Palace. (Xinhua/Ray Tang)   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Queen Elizabeth II's 93rd birthday marked in Hyde Park of London Queen Elizabeth II turns 93 Britain's Queen Elizabeth expresses sadness over Notre Dame Cathedral fire Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Contribution rememberedChild porn arrests shock S.California Chinese communityUtah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental Railroad