A helicopter flies to Hong Kong from Shenzhen, south China's Guangdong Province, June 28, 2019. The first cross-border helicopter flight was conducted on Friday between Shenzhen and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. An Airbus H135 light twin-engine helicopter took off from Shenzhen Baoan International Airport and landed at Hong Kong Xinde Heliport on Friday morning with an around 15-minute cross-border flight. (Xinhua)

A helicopter takes off for Hong Kong at Baoan International Airport in Shenzhen, south China's Guangdong Province, June 28, 2019. The first cross-border helicopter flight was conducted on Friday between Shenzhen and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. An Airbus H135 light twin-engine helicopter took off from Shenzhen Baoan International Airport and landed at Hong Kong Xinde Heliport on Friday morning with an around 15-minute cross-border flight. (Xinhua)  The first cross-border helicopter flight was conducted on Friday between Shenzhen and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. An Airbus H135 light twin-engine helicopter took off from Shenzhen Baoan International Airport and landed at Hong Kong Xinde Heliport on Friday morning with an around 15-minute cross-border flight. The helicopter is operated by Shenzhen Eastern General Aviation Company (Shenzhen Eastern GAC) in south China's Guangdong Province. "We are committed to playing a leading role in the low-altitude air transportation in the Greater Bay Area," said Zhao Qi, chairman of Shenzhen Eastern GAC. He disclosed that the company had targeted building up a three-dimensional transportation system around the area with a helicopter platform centered in Shenzhen in five years. The Shenzhen-Hong Kong cross-border helicopter flight will greatly upgrade the travel efficiency of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area. Shenzhen Eastern GAC is the first certified general aviation company in China to operate helicopter flights between Guangdong and Hong Kong. The service will start with a chartered flight service at the initial stage. And then, regular heli-flights is under plan. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Many frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5GChinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US Census