The launching ceremony of an activity that will take journalists to retrace the route of the Long March is held in Yudu County, east China's Jiangxi Province, June 11, 2019. The activity is aimed at paying tribute to the revolutionary martyrs and passing on the traditions of revolution, as the country celebrates the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China this year. Over 500 journalists from more than 30 media outlets across the country attended the ceremonies. The Long March was a military maneuver carried out by the Chinese Workers' and Peasants' Red Army from 1934 to 1936. During this period, they left their bases and marched through rivers, mountains and arid grassland to break the siege of Kuomintang forces and continue to fight Japanese aggressors. Many marched as far as 12,500 km. (Photo: Xinhua) 

Journalists conduct a group interview during an activity to retrace the route of the Long March at a revolutionary site in Ruijin City, east China's Jiangxi Province, June 11, 2019. The activity is aimed at paying tribute to the revolutionary martyrs and passing on the traditions of revolution, as the country celebrates the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China this year. Over 500 journalists from more than 30 media outlets across the country attended the ceremonies. The Long March was a military maneuver carried out by the Chinese Workers' and Peasants' Red Army from 1934 to 1936. During this period, they left their bases and marched through rivers, mountains and arid grassland to break the siege of Kuomintang forces and continue to fight Japanese aggressors. Many marched as far as 12,500 km. (Photo: Xinhua) 

The launching ceremony of an activity that will take journalists to retrace the route of the Long March is held in Ruijin City, east China's Jiangxi Province, June 11, 2019. The activity is aimed at paying tribute to the revolutionary martyrs and passing on the traditions of revolution, as the country celebrates the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China this year. Over 500 journalists from more than 30 media outlets across the country attended the ceremonies. The Long March was a military maneuver carried out by the Chinese Workers' and Peasants' Red Army from 1934 to 1936. During this period, they left their bases and marched through rivers, mountains and arid grassland to break the siege of Kuomintang forces and continue to fight Japanese aggressors. Many marched as far as 12,500 km. (Photo: Xinhua) 

Journalists conduct a group interview during an activity to retrace the route of the Long March at a revolutionary site in Ruijin City, east China's Jiangxi Province, June 11, 2019. The activity is aimed at paying tribute to the revolutionary martyrs and passing on the traditions of revolution, as the country celebrates the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China this year. Over 500 journalists from more than 30 media outlets across the country attended the ceremonies. The Long March was a military maneuver carried out by the Chinese Workers' and Peasants' Red Army from 1934 to 1936. During this period, they left their bases and marched through rivers, mountains and arid grassland to break the siege of Kuomintang forces and continue to fight Japanese aggressors. Many marched as far as 12,500 km. (Photo: Xinhua) 

Journalists conduct a group interview during an activity to retrace the route of the Long March at a revolutionary site in Ruijin City, east China's Jiangxi Province, June 11, 2019. The activity is aimed at paying tribute to the revolutionary martyrs and passing on the traditions of revolution, as the country celebrates the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China this year. Over 500 journalists from more than 30 media outlets across the country attended the ceremonies. The Long March was a military maneuver carried out by the Chinese Workers' and Peasants' Red Army from 1934 to 1936. During this period, they left their bases and marched through rivers, mountains and arid grassland to break the siege of Kuomintang forces and continue to fight Japanese aggressors. Many marched as far as 12,500 km. (Photo: Xinhua) China on Tuesday launched an activity that will take journalists to retrace the route of the Long March.Huang Kunming, a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and head of the Publicity Department of the CPC Central Committee, attended the launching ceremony in Jiangxi Province. Ceremonies were also held in Fujian Province.The activity is aimed at paying tribute to the revolutionary martyrs and passing on the traditions of revolution, as the country celebrates the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China this year.Huang called on journalists to firmly uphold ideals and beliefs and inspire the whole nation to join the Long March for the new era using pictures and stories.Over 500 journalists from more than 30 media outlets across the country attended the ceremonies.The Long March was a military maneuver carried out by the Chinese Workers' and Peasants' Red Army from 1934 to 1936. During this period, they left their bases and marched through rivers, mountains and arid grassland to break the siege of Kuomintang forces and continue to fight Japanese aggressors. Many marched as far as 12,500 km. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Xi Jinping lays floral basket at monument marking departure of Long March Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Contribution rememberedChild porn arrests shock S.California Chinese communityUtah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental Railroad