Metro is limbering up for a lengthy battle. The German cash-and-carry retailer on Sunday rebuffed an offer from two investors valuing the company at 5.8 billion euros ($6.61 billion). Though the offer looks stingy, Metro CEO Olaf Koch will have to convince more investors his turnaround plan is working to see off a more serious assault.Czech investor Daniel Kretinsky and his Slovak partner Patrik Tkac first bought into the ailing German company in August last year. Their acquisition vehicle, EP Global Commerce, now owns at least 11 percent. Its offer has the support of 15 percent shareholder Haniel and retailer Ceconomy, which has granted them an option over a further 5 percent.To get full control of Metro, however, the pair would need shareholders representing three-quarters of the company to accept the bid. That looks a stretch without the agreement of long-term investors Meridian Foundation and Beisheim, which own 20 percent between them.The offer of 16 euros per ordinary Metro share - a premium of just 3 percent over the company's closing share price on Friday - looks too low to win over wavering investors. Granted, Metro's shares are a third higher than when Kretinsky and Tkac sparked takeover speculation by taking a stake in August last year. But the shares have been volatile since. Besides, with net debt of 2.7 billion euros, the proposed offer is 5.9 times Metro's forecast EBITDA for 2019, according to Refinitiv. Smaller Polish rival Eurocash trades on 10.8 times.To see off the raiders, however, Metro needs to win more supporters for a standalone strategy. The group has suffered from falling revenue in Western Europe and Russia where a ban on European food imports dented the outlook last year.Koch, who has been CEO since 2012, is selling Metro's Real hypermarkets in Germany as well as its Chinese business, which could have an enterprise value of $1.5 billion to $2 billion, people familiar with the matter told Reuters in March. If completed, those two deals could unlock some value. The challenge will be persuading Metro shareholders to keep their nerve despite the assault.The author is Dasha Afanasieva, a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The article was first published on Reuters Breakingviews. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Agony for Australia as Norway, Germany reach Women’s World Cup quarters  Chinese vice premier meets German economy minister German Chancellor Merkel shaking visibly at ceremony in Berlin Chinese supermarkets crack down on fake Starbucks coffee Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US CensusChalk festivalRoaring dirt bikes