Science and technology (S&T) cooperation has been a highlight of ties between China and Germany, and is expected to bring more opportunities to both sides, said officials and experts. "China and Germany have set a precedent worldwide by setting up an S&T cooperation mechanism between big countries, which has so far created abundant outcomes," said Huang Wei, deputy head of China's Ministry of Science and Technology. Over 700 intergovernmental research and development programs, couples of joint labs and research centers, among others, have been supported since the mechanism was established in 1978. "We will continue to promote mutual trust, focus on key areas, increase investment and move bilateral pragmatic cooperation forward," Huang said. "China and Germany have broad prospects in artificial intelligence cooperation, which will profoundly affect education, health and robots sectors, to name just a few," said Zhang Jianwei, head of Technical Aspects of Multimodal Systems Institute at the University of Hamburg. "I find my previous teamwork with Chinese colleagues in neuroscience study very successful," said Tobias Kalenscher, professor of Institute of Experimental Psychology at the University of Dusseldorf. "They become increasingly international and involved in academic exchanges. I'm looking forward to expanding our cooperation in (the) future." David Huang, managing director of Chinese battery manufacturer Contemporary Amperex Technology, which has one of its research and development centers in Berlin, said Germany has much experience in basic research, engineering, quality control and standardization, while China's strengths are flexibility, price control and a huge market. "We can well supplement each other and make a win-win," he said. Werner Hufenbach, professor at the Technical University of Dresden, has experience of cofounding with Chinese companies research centers on rail transport and on automobile lightweight. "I have worked with Chinese counterparts for almost four decades, which I am convinced that is built on equality, mutual trust and mutual benefits, "said Hufenbach. "I have full confidence in the future of S&T cooperation between our two countries." For Yin Jun, head of science department of Chinese Embassy to Berlin, China and Germany will have "more cooperation in basic science such as quantum science, brain science, biomedicine, artificial intelligence and so on, as well as in big science research which requires heavy investments and interdisciplinary exchanges." Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Contribution rememberedChild porn arrests shock S.California Chinese communityUtah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental Railroad