Water scarcity in India is turning into a grave crisis leading to a possible halting of residential construction in some cities and rising migration in rural areas due to farm distress. In the country's southern city of Bengaluru -- capital of Karnataka state, the situation has worsened to such an extent that the state government is contemplating a ban on construction of new apartments in Bengaluru to combat the water shortage. According to one state minister for Karnataka, there is no assurance of providing drinking water or other basic amenities while selling residential apartments in the city. Even provided to these apartments, the quality of water is poor, and most of these apartments depend on borewells or getting water delivered by tankers that is drawn from unclean lakes, which could pose a health risk as well, said reports quoting the minister. Further down South, 346 km from Bengaluru is the city of Chennai -- capital of Tamil Nadu district where the scenario is no different with the city facing the worst water crisis. Water crisis in Chennai is attributed to over exploitation of existing resources along with rapid rate of migration and unplanned growth. After 18 years, railway wagons will be pressed into service to transport water to Chennai from another district. Chennai's water requirement is 830 million liters a day and the state government claimed that it is now supplying 530 million liters a day from the four primary reservoirs that are on the verge of going dry. Upwards North, the Nashik district located 166 km from Mumbai -- in India's Western state of Maharashtra, has seen depleting ground water levels despite good rainfall every year and being home to some major rivers that supply water to the country's financial capital. Experts attributed the water crisis in India, ranked 120th among 122 countries in the water quality index to global warming, tree cutting and urbanization. The grim scenario had led to rising migration in Nashik district leaving several villages with only old people and young children left behind to fend for themselves. In June last year, Niti Aayog -- an Indian government policy think tank in its report revealed that 600 million people in India face high to extreme water stress in the country. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Palestinians struggle to solve acute water crisis in Gaza Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Many frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5GChinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US Census