Attendees of the fifth summit of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA) hailed China's initiatives on Asian security and development and agreed that Asian countries should strengthen cooperation to promote stability and prosperity in the region. Addressing the summit Saturday, Chinese President Xi Jinping highlighted the need to build an Asia featuring mutual respect and mutual trust, a safe and stable Asia, a prosperous Asia, an open and inclusive Asia, as well as a cooperative and innovative Asia. To that end, he proposed exploring a new security and development path that fits Asian features and the common interests of relevant countries, in addition to a new vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security that he put forward at the 2014 CICA Shanghai summit. TIMELY, SIGNIFICANT IDEAS Experts of CICA countries said that in view of increasing global and regional uncertainties, the ideas proposed by the Chinese president are timely and of practical significance. "All countries participating in the CICA are interested in sustainable development, as well as in ensuring overall security on the continent. I think that the initiative of the Chinese leader is very timely," said Komron Hidoytzoda, deputy head of the Department for the Study of Regional Security Problems at the Center for Strategic Studies under the President of Tajikistan. Echoing Xi's remarks, he said all countries, regardless of their location, should take into account the features that have developed in Asia, and in this context, work together to ensure a universal security system in Asia. Leonid Vasilyev, senior researcher of the Institute of Far Eastern Studies at Russian Academy of Sciences, said the Chinese approach is effective and inspires confidence in the world, and is bound to gain support from other countries. "All the initiatives that China puts forward are aimed at resolving conflicts on the basis of taking into account the interests of all parties. They carry a positive charge and contribute to the improvement of the existing world order," Vasilyev said. In his address, Xi hailed the progress made by Asian countries in building an Asian community with a shared future in the past few years. He encouraged CICA members to hold on to their goals and make concerted efforts in opening up new prospects for Asian security and development under the new circumstances. "Xi paid special attention to the concept of creating a community of a share future for humanity. Other leaders who spoke out supported these ideas because they are very relevant and timely," Hidoytzoda said. DEVELOPMENT AS KEY Xi said in his address that development is the key to all problems, adding that CICA members should work together to promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, implement the consensus reached at the second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation in April, strengthen the synergy of their development strategies, boost comprehensive connectivity and promote high-quality economic development in all countries. Experts recognized China's leading role in promoting sustainable development and expressed their support for the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), which can "ensure the peaceful development of the entire region and the prosperity of the economy." "China, as a fast-growing economy ... is trying to ensure not only its own development, but also to help all countries of the region, especially in Asia, to ensure equal sustainable development," said Rustam Haydarov, deputy director of the Institute of Philosophy, Political Science and Law at the Academy of Sciences of Tajikistan. He said the BRI is a peaceful initiative that is open to all countries of the world community, and Chinese investment has helped many Asian countries, especially the countries of Central Asia, gain new momentum to develop their economies. "China transfers not only finance for the development of the economy, but knowledge transfer and technology transfer are also underway. All ... is China's contribution to the development of our region," Haydarov said. Asadollah Badamchian, general-secretary of Iran's Islamic Coalition Party, said the initiative can bring peace and security to the countries along the Belt and Road, and promote economic development and commodity circulation. "This is the right path for China and the world," he said. Experts said CICA members should strengthen cooperation within its framework and also step up joint work with other multilateral cooperation mechanisms in Asia, so as to contribute to building a community with a shared future for Asian countries. "The time has come for the CICA to gradually evolve towards greater institutionalization," Vasilyev said. PROMOTING PEACE, STABILITY Connecting security and development issues, Xi's remarks are inspiring in building an Asia featuring political mutual trust, said Emad al-Azrak, head of the Chinese Studies Unit of the Dialogue Center for Political and Strategic Studies in Egypt. He believes this whole process will help the region overcome problems and challenges including imbalanced economic development, and facilitate development of the whole international community. Asanga Abeyagoonasekera, director general of the Institute of National Security Studies of Sri Lanka, highlighted security as a prominent issue Asia is facing, and appreciated Xi's remarks stressing cooperation among Asian countries in promoting regional security, stability, development and prosperity. Choo Jaewoo, professor at South Korea's Kyung Hee University, said China's peaceful development is a positive driving force for regional and global development and prosperity. He also expressed hope that China will continuously encourage joint efforts in building a safe and stable Asia and promoting regional cooperation and development, so as to bring the CICA achievement into full play to benefit regional peace and development. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Amity, security, prosperity -- Xi opens new prospects for Asia Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Roaring dirt bikesContribution remembered