Plastic, paper, metal? In Japan's Kamikatsu, sorting rubbish isn't that simple. Residents face a mind-boggling 45 separate categories for their garbage as the town aims to be "zero-waste" by 2020.And that's not all: there isn't even trash collection. The 1,500 residents of the town in western Japan have to transport their waste themselves to a local facility."Yes, it's complicated," said Naoko Yokoyama, a 39-year-old resident who had brought her trash to the town's waste center. "But I have become more environmentally conscious since I moved here a year ago," she told AFP.The categories cover everything from pillows to toothbrushes as the town aims to recycle all its waste, sending nothing to incinerators, by next year. The process can be onerous - not only are there dozens of separate categories, but items like plastic bags and bottles must be washed and dried to facilitate recycling.At the town's waste facility, there are dozens of different boxes for each category. If the parts of an item fall into different categories for recycling, residents are expected to take them apart and send each bit to the right container.One man who had brought in a shelf had to use a hammer to prize the wood from the metal, while elsewhere workers chopped up a thick, long rubber tube so it would fit into a sorting box.Many parts of Japan already require separation of rubbish, but most areas have just a few categories, with the bulk of household waste going to incinerators.Kamikatsu was not much different until an ultimatum: in 2000, the town was ordered to shut down one of its incinerators because it no longer met stricter emissions standards.That left the town with just one incinerator that couldn't handle all of Kamikatsu's waste, and there wasn't enough money for a new one or to pay a neighboring town for use of theirs."We thought, 'If we can't burn waste in the town, then let's recycle.' It's cheaper to recycle waste than burn it," said town official Midori Suga.Kamikatsu is already close to achieving its goal, recycling about 80 percent of the 286 tons of waste it produced in 2017, far more than the national average of 20 percent.The remainder, like most waste in Japan, is incinerated, as the country's mountainous terrain considered unsuitable for landfills.The nation produces less general waste per person than most developed countries, but it generates more plastic waste per capita than anywhere except the US.Still, not all residents think the initiative could work elsewhere. "It works because we're only 1,500 people here," said Yokoyama, who moved from Kyoto. "It would be difficult in a big town with a larger population," she said.But other residents say the policy is just common sense. "I understand it's convenient to just burn waste," said 71-year-old local Saeko Takahashi, as she washed milk cartons and tied newspapers together. "It's better to recycle, it's such a waste otherwise," she explained.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Canada announces plans to ban single-use plastics starting from 2021 Beat air pollution, recharge Mother Earth Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Roaring dirt bikesContribution remembered