Pedestrians pass a Huawei store in Beijing on Thursday. The Chinese telecom giant said Thursday that it could roll out by the fall its own operating system for smartphones and laptops in China. Photo: AFPUS Republican senator Marco Rubio is reportedly trying to stop Huawei from seeking patent royalties in US courts. It is anticipated that this move will tarnish the US' reputation as a fair market and hurt its rule of the law. And the old world, led by conservative American elites, is very likely to collapse if the new legislation filed by Rubio get approved by Congress, Chinese analysts and lawyers warned. Rubio, seen as a Republican hawk who hates China, filed legislation on Monday to prevent the Chinese tech giant from seeking damages for its patents, Reuters reported on Tuesday. The move followed Huawei's demand for up to $1 billion in licensing fees from major US carrier, Verizon, the report said. The legislation stipulates that companies on the watchlist of the US government will not be able to seek relief on intellectual property rights (IPR)-related issues under US law, such as bringing legal action over patent infringement, according to Reuters. Chinese internet users and analysts called Rubio's legislation a manic move, and a malicious way to strike out against an individual company. "It's more than Iron Curtain age, it just shows how stupid today's US politicians are," a netizen with pseudonym of Huibaijiao said on Chinese Twitter-like Weibo. Such an act, if passed, would violate the basic principles of the rule of law and deprive related companies the fundamental right of access to the courts, Dr. Yue, a US-based lawyer who has been following the Huawei matter for months, told the Global Times on Tuesday. Some Chinese netizens suggested that if the act is passed, China should learn a lesson from the US by banning American tech companies from seeking IPR damages in China, which would result in huge losses for companies like Qualcomm and Intel. Huawei has 56,492 active patents in telecommunications and networking technology, as it has been investing heavily in research and development over the past decades, according to media reports, citing a report from AcclaimIP. The Chinese company is now asking Verizon to pay licensing fees for about 230 of its patents, the Wall Street Journal reported on June 12, and some analysts considered it as a stepping-up bid to strike back at US government. Huawei will not weaponize its patents and use them against others, Ren Zhengfei, founder of the company, told a panel discussion in the company's headquarters in Shenzhen, South China's Guangdong Province, on Monday. "We've been following the rules and regulations since we launched the company… Claims that we stole IPR are groundless," he said, noting that patents come through its hardwork , so it's necessary to have cross-licensing and payment for all licenses.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Huawei won’t be beaten to death: Ren Zhengfei US chipmakers lobby against Huawei ban Huawei makes aggressive moves in the 5G arena Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Roaring dirt bikesContribution remembered