A shopper walks past an adidas store at an outlet mall in Los Angeles on Tuesday. More than 170 shoe companies and retailers including adidas, Nike, Skechers and Under Armour have warned US President Donald Trump about the "catastrophic" effects of a trade war with China. Photo: AFPChina has been mulling over list systems to provide the legal basis to protect its national technology security and safeguard the legitimate interests of Chinese firms amid an escalating trade war with the US.The move shows Chinese authorities are preparing for another round of countermeasures against the brutal US crackdown on Chinese tech firms to inflict serious harm on American firms, industry observers said. They predicted that technologies in rare earths, 5G, nuclear, drones and the aerospace industry could be included in the export control list. The National Development and Reform Commission, China's economic planner, announced late Saturday that it has been tasked with organizing a study to establish a national technological security management list system to "more effectively forestall and defuse national security risks," the Xinhua News Agency reported Saturday.The move is based on China's National Security Law and other related laws and regulations. Detailed measures will be unveiled in the near future, the Xinhua report said. "Certain countries have taken extreme measures to hinder global technological cooperation, and the establishment of the list will help… prevent certain countries from using China's technologies to suppress its development," Xinhua said in an editorial.While the US has frequently targeted Chinese tech firms, citing "national security," and has an Entity List to control exports during the yearlong trade war, the soon-to-be released list is widely considered a move to leverage China's legal means to provide the legislation framework for protecting domestic tech companies and hitting back at US suppression, industry observers said.The timing of the list, which also comes ahead of the reported meeting between Chinese and US leaders at the G20 later this month, also mirrors Chinese officials' urgency to "up the ante" and devise new measures as the trade war intensifies.Getting prepared legally On May 15, the US Commerce Department placed Huawei and its 70 affiliates on an "Entity List" on grounds of national security, which will ban the Chinese telecom giant from accessing US-made components and parts. "Without the list system, China was defending passively to US tech offensives. But with such a list, China will become more legally prepared so that it can hit back swiftly and intelligently against  the US," Huo Jianguo, vice chairman of the China Society for World Trade Organization Studies, told the Global Times on Sunday. Huo predicted that the list system will be a dynamic one with a small scope of "strategically important" technologies that are at the heart of US firms, such as rare earths, nuclear technology, 5G technology, drones and  the aerospace industry, that are subject to export control. As the "international situation and China-US relations change," the list could include more or exempt others. The management list is in line with international norms and rules to protect a nation's security, which technology security is an indispensable part of, analysts said. Major Western economies came up with a similar approach years ago."Economic globalization is irresistible as every country has integrated deeply into the global industrial chain. No country has neglected their economic safety, and China is no exception," a People's Daily editorial said Sunday.   China's National Security Law also states that China should strengthen the capacity to protect technology confidentiality and guarantee the safety of major technologies and projects. "As a technological powerhouse, China has been drafting the list for a very long time. Changes in the international situation just provided the right timing," said Mei Xinyu, an analyst close to the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM). Collateral damageThe new management list also comes days after MOFCOM announced on May 31 that it will soon release a list of unreliable foreign entities that undermined Chinese firms' interests.Xiang Ligang, director-general of the Beijing-based Information Consumption Alliance, said that the two schemes could work together to "generate collateral damage" on foreign firms that have cut off supplies to Chinese tech companies. "From a tech security perspective, foreign companies from certain countries have pocketed profits from Chinese markets by dumping products, such as auto parts, auto motors and computer central processing units, which led to a delayed growth in homegrown industries. The Chinese government could prioritize national security and impose quotas to restrict such imports," Xiang noted. That way, foreign suppliers that distance themselves from Chinese firms could face restricted market access and see their revenues slump, Xiang said.Following the US government ban in May, some US tech firms have yielded to the pressure and halted cooperation with Huawei. For example, semiconductor-maker ARM Holdings announced that it was cutting ties with Huawei. US tech giant Google also restricted Huawei's Android license.  Last week, the Chinese government met with representatives of major tech companies from the US, UK and South Korea, urging them to honor their partnerships with Chinese firms, the New York Times reported. Microsoft, Dell, Samsung and ARM were reportedly among the foreign companies summoned.Representatives of those firms have not responded to interview requests from the Global Times as of press time."This is a warning to foreign companies. But China's door is always open to foreign firms and China's will never abuse its legitimate rights by targeting foreign firms who respect their cooperation with their Chinese peers," Huo said.Newspaper headline: China readies new countermeasures 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China pushes back accusations, releases report on trade benefits for US amid trade war  Trump's trade war pain getting real Trade war could embroil financial sector Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Contribution rememberedChild porn arrests shock S.California Chinese communityUtah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental Railroad