Sichuan Wolong National Reserve Administration has released a series of announcements recently on an illegal crossing incident on June 12, saying six hikers have been reprimanded through administrative penalties and one victim's family charged fees. All the six hikers have been reprimanded and imposed 5,000 yuan fines ($722) respectively with medical expenses paid. No penalty was imposed on the dead victim, except the fees caused by transferring the remains from the mountain and the after-treatment in Wolong area are paid by her family, the announcement said. The body of the female victim was transferred down the mountain at around 11 am on Sunday. Surnamed Wang, the deceased victim is from Southwest China's Chongqing Municipality, and died from an accident according to an investigation concluded by the local police. The incident took place around 11 pm on Friday night.  A villager involved in the rescue told the Beijing Youth Daily that the victim was found on a hillside at an altitude of 4,800 meters.Local police were alerted through a satellite phone call that a team of seven hikers accessed at Daxuetang in the nature reserve area around 5 pm on June 12. The other six hikers were in good physical condition, the statement said. Daxuetang, the highest peak of Chengdu, is more than 5,300 meters above sea level. The northern foot of the mountain belongs to the Wolong Nature Reserve area. There is only one mountaineering route. Any access to the nature reserve area requires strict procedures for approval, the report said. Despite the billboards to warn hikers against illegal access to the nature reserve, and efforts such as patrols, people keep trying their luck to find loopholes, local villagers told the Beijing Youth Daily. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Wild panda filmed sleeping in a tree at Wolong National Nature Reserve in SW China's Sichuan Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Roaring dirt bikesContribution remembered