Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi attends a welcome ceremony with Sri Lankan President Maithripala Sirisena in Colombo, Sri Lanka, June 9, 2019. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Sri Lanka on a short visit on Sunday where he paid tribute to the victims of the Easter terror attacks which killed over 250 people and injured over 500. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi (L) is welcomed by Sri Lankan Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe at Bandaranaike International Airport on the outskirts of Colombo, Sri Lanka, June 9, 2019. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Sri Lanka on a short visit on Sunday where he paid tribute to the victims of the Easter terror attacks which killed over 250 people and injured over 500. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrives at Bandaranaike International Airport on the outskirts of Colombo, Sri Lanka, June 9, 2019. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Sri Lanka on a short visit on Sunday where he paid tribute to the victims of the Easter terror attacks which killed over 250 people and injured over 500. (Photo: Xinhua)

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrives at Bandaranaike International Airport on the outskirts of Colombo, Sri Lanka, June 9, 2019. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Sri Lanka on a short visit on Sunday where he paid tribute to the victims of the Easter terror attacks which killed over 250 people and injured over 500. (Photo: Xinhua)  Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Sri Lanka on a short visit on Sunday where he paid tribute to the victims of the Easter terror attacks which killed over 250 people and injured over 500.After being welcomed by Sri Lankan Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe at the Bandaranaike International Airport, Modi visited the St. Anthony's Church in capital Colombo where he paid his respect to the victims of the blasts.The St. Anthony's Church was one of the three churches attacked by a suicide bomber on April 21 along with three luxury hotels."I am confident Sri Lanka will rise again. Cowardly acts of terror cannot defeat the spirit of Sri Lanka," Modi said on his official twitter account after visiting the church.Modi later met President Maithripala Sirisena in Colombo where both leaders pledged to work collectively to eliminate terrorism from the region.Modi also held discussions with opposition leader Mahinda Rajapaksa and Tamil National Alliance leader R. Sampanthan, and later addressed the Indian community in Colombo. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Clash over Sri Lanka attacks probe Macao pull out of qualifier in Sri Lanka citing safety  Modi leaves for two-day visit to Maldives, Sri Lanka Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Contribution rememberedChild porn arrests shock S.California Chinese communityUtah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental Railroad