Frigate Weifang leaves from a port in Qingdao, east China's Shandong Province, Aug. 29, 2019. The 33rd fleet from the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) Navy on Thursday left the port city of Qingdao in east China's Shandong Province for the Gulf of Aden to escort civilian ships. (Xinhua/Li Ziheng)

Soldiers wave goodbye to family and friends on destroyer Xining at a port in Qingdao, east China's Shandong Province, Aug. 29, 2019. The 33rd fleet from the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) Navy on Thursday left the port city of Qingdao in east China's Shandong Province for the Gulf of Aden to escort civilian ships. (Xinhua/Li Ziheng)

Soldiers stand on destroyer Xining at a port in Qingdao, east China's Shandong Province, Aug. 29, 2019. The 33rd fleet from the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) Navy on Thursday left the port city of Qingdao in east China's Shandong Province for the Gulf of Aden to escort civilian ships. (Xinhua/Li Ziheng)The 33rd fleet from the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) Navy on Thursday left the port city of Qingdao in east China's Shandong Province for the Gulf of Aden to escort civilian ships.The fleet is mainly composed of naval forces from the the Northern Theater Command of the Chinese navy, including a destroyer, a frigate and a supply ship.It has more than 600 officers and soldiers, dozens of special operation soldiers and two helicopters onboard.The PLA Navy began to carry out escort missions in the Gulf of Aden and the waters off Somalia in December 2008.Over the past decade, the Chinese navy has dispatched 106 vessels and over 28,000 officers and soldiers to escort more than 6,700 Chinese and foreign ships.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China launches world-leading unmanned warship Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US How Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrantsFootvolley tournamentChinese-American player keen to grow NFL in China