Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi (R) holds talks with India's Minister of External Affairs Subrahmanyam Jaishankar in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 12, 2019. (Xinhua/Zhai Jianlan) Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi held talks with visiting Indian Minister of External Affairs Subrahmanyam Jaishankar here on Monday. Wang called on both sides to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, cherish the outcomes of the improvement of bilateral relations, further enhance mutual trust and deepen cooperation, according to a Chinese official press release. Jaishankar said India is looking forward to the second informal meeting between the leaders of the two countries in India this year and is willing to make sure the meeting is a full success. Both sides believe that they should safeguard their developing country status, and safeguard their rights of development and legitimate interests in the World Trade Organization. Wang stated China's principled position on India's recent unilateral move on the Kashmir issue, said that China hopes India will play a constructive role in regional peace and stability, according to the press release. Jaishankar explained India's stance, noting that India is willing to exercise restraint and improve relations with Pakistan. India will also abide by the consensus reached with China on maintaining peace in the border and continue to work with China to properly solve the border issue through consultations, said the press release. Later on Monday, Wang and Jaishankar co-chaired the second meeting of the China-India high-level people-to-people exchanges mechanism, agreeing to further promote the friendship between the two peoples. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Pakistan expels Indian high commissioner after downgrading bilateral diplomatic ties Indian ex-Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj dies of heart attack Indian-controlled Kashmir authorities ask tourists to leave immediately Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash