Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi met here Thursday with Indian External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Brunei's Second Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Dato Paduka Haji Erywan bin Pehin Yusof on the sidelines of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations foreign ministers' meeting and other related meetings. While meeting with Indian External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, Wang said China attaches great importance to its relations with India and the leaders of the two countries have engaged in close interactions since India's new government was formed. As two major neighboring countries and two major emerging economies, China and India are facing new opportunities in developing bilateral relations, the Chinese state councilor said. China stands ready to join hands with India to prepare for future high-level exchanges, well promote the people-to-people and cultural exchange mechanism, and work for the successful holding of meetings between the two countries' special representatives on the boundary issue as well as strategic economic dialogue, Wang said. China pays great attention to the trade imbalance between the two countries, Wang also said, adding that China is willing to work with India to make the cake of cooperation bigger, import more high-quality products from India and boost cooperation in such fields as investment, production capacity, tourism, telecommunication and connectivity. He also noted that China is willing to deepen communication and coordination with India in regional and international affairs, push for regional cooperation focusing on development and cooperation and featuring inclusiveness and openness so as to promote prosperity and stability of Asia. For his part, the Indian external affairs minister said India-China relations are now at a crucial stage and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi hopes to further promote bilateral relations in his new term, adding that India is optimistic about the prospects of bilateral economic cooperation and stands ready to expand common interests and deepen pragmatic cooperation with China. On the 5G issue, he said India will make independent decisions in line with its national interests. India is also willing to actively participate in the building of the Bangladesh-China-India-Myanmar Economic Corridor to achieve mutual benefit and win-win results, he added. When meeting with Brunei's Second Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Dato Paduka Haji Erywan bin Pehin Yusof, Wang said that China-Brunei relations have developed smoothly, becoming a model of mutual understanding, mutual respect, mutual support and peaceful coexistence between large and small countries. Under the guidance of the important consensus reached by leaders of both countries, the two sides should seize the opportunity provided by the joint development of the Belt and Road Initiative to advance the construction of the Guangxi-Brunei Economic Corridor, promote people-to-people exchanges and deepen pragmatic cooperation in various sectors, Wang said. The Brunei's second minister said Brunei is willing to strengthen high-level exchanges, deepen cooperation and push for greater development of bilateral relations. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  The ‘Asian Age’ and role of China and India Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash