Global satellite-based communications provider Inmarsat is eyeing China's huge maritime satellite communications market despite the simmering trade war. In particular it has set its sights on the surging demand for real-time connectivity with the arrival of the 5G era in China, the company's global CEO Rupert Pearce told the Global Times."China's maritime satellite communications market is very large and growing rapidly, it is also among the most innovative ones in the world. China also supplies an enormous number of crew members for the global merchant marine fleet as well as fishery business around the coasts," Pearce said.The UK-based company, over the last forty years, has launched and operated 13 satellites in geostationary orbit to provide successive and full broadband global network services that cover L-band broadband, high-speed Ka-band and European inflight Wi-Fi S-band services, allowing wireless networks to be accessed from sea and the skies.It also has another eight satellites that will be launched into orbit in the next few years to expand network capacity, Pearce revealed.Last year, China's self-developed BeiDou Navigation System was approved by the International Maritime Organization to develop the maritime safety communications system, directly rivaling Inmarsat. Pearce said that the firm does not see the BeiDou Navigation system as a threat, but rather that "we're natural partners" because of the different focuses of the services. Inmarsat started cooperating with and supporting the BeiDou Navigation system five years ago. For example, BeiDou and Inmarsat have jointly developed a maritime satellite fleetphone for the fishery fleet in East China's Fujian Province. The device, which integrates the navigation service with the communications service, is manufactured in China. Inmarsat is also willing to collaborate with more Chinese partners in countries and regions along the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) where BeiDou has a presence, he said. In 2015, the London-listed group signed a deal with the China Transport Telecommunication & Information Centre to deliver satellite communications along BRI routes. The satellite group also has greater plans in China alongside the country's soon-to-be commercialized 5G network. "China is leading the way around the world in 5G service, which puts connectivity at the heart of … any industries like automation, digitalization, the use of big data and artificial intelligence. We could help extend China's 5G connectivity into the sea, into the sky and into the remote and rural areas under a satellite-based network, serving as a back up to terrestrial 5G network," Pearce explained.Inmarsat's fifth generation, Ka-band satellites powered Global Xpress (GX), which is at least a hundred time faster than its fourth-generation network, began global service in 2015. It created the world's first and only high-speed, seamless global mobile broadband network.As such, Pearce noted that Inmarsat looks to become a provider of China's 5G maritime network and to integrate its satellite-based service with the Chinese 5G terrestrial network, so that users can switch seamlessly from China's land-based 5G to the maritime network when moving into open seas. The UK company is speeding up its localization strategy amid an escalation of the China-US trade war, according to the CEO. "There may be some trepidation as trade war causes a lot of ripples around the world. But we're very proud to be part of the local business community in China and we continue to see tremendous growth potential in China's major markets." 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Britain needs Huawei 5G to maintain a competitive edge  Cybersecurity needs higher priority in 5G era China to shore up cybersecurity in the upcoming 5G era Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese-American player keen to grow NFL in ChinaVictims rememberedWorking goats