Students carry school bags with panda images during the ceremony for the 2019 Panda Pack donation and the 4th anniversary of China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) Myanmar Office in Yangon, Myanmar, Aug. 17, 2019. China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) Myanmar Office donated 100,000 school bags and stationeries to Myanmar students under Panda Pack Project for 2019-2020 academic year in Yangon on Saturday. (Xinhua/U Aung) China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) Myanmar Office donated 100,000 school bags and stationeries to Myanmar students under Panda Pack Project for 2019-2020 academic year in Yangon on Saturday. 

Students hold school bags with panda images during the ceremony for the 2019 Panda Pack donation and the 4th anniversary of China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) Myanmar Office in Yangon, Myanmar, Aug. 17, 2019. China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) Myanmar Office donated 100,000 school bags and stationeries to Myanmar students under Panda Pack Project for 2019-2020 academic year in Yangon on Saturday. (Xinhua/U Aung) Under the Panda Pack project, Saturday's donation of school bags which include stationeries called panda packs covers 15 townships in Myanmar's states and regions. Since 2017, panda packs have been donated to 37,760 primary school students in six states and regions including Shan, Rakhine, Kachin states, Yangon, Bago and Sagaing regions. "CFPA, the first Chinese non-governmental organization registered in Myanmar, has done many contributions in collaboration with Myanmar's Education Ministry for education sector development in four years since when its Myanmar Office was opened in 2016," said Counselor Yang Shouzheng of Chinese Embassy in Myanmar, expressing belief that such cooperation could benefit Myanmar people and promote bilateral friendship between the two countries. 

School bags with panda images are seen at the ceremony for the 2019 Panda Pack donation and the 4th anniversary of China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) Myanmar Office in Yangon, Myanmar, Aug. 17, 2019. China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) Myanmar Office donated 100,000 school bags and stationeries to Myanmar students under Panda Pack Project for 2019-2020 academic year in Yangon on Saturday. (Xinhua/U Aung)  CFPA's panda packs donation really support Myanmar students' academic life, said Thet Su Htwe, a representative teacher from schools. "Internationally, we help children on six sustainable development goals -- no poverty, zero hunger, good health and well-being, quality education, clean water and sanitation and decent work and economic growth," said Wang Xingzui, executive vice president of CFPA. For Myanmar's education sector, CFPA has launched projects including Paukphaw scholarship, Panda Pack, Computer Lab, China-Myanmar Friendship Scholarship, School infrastructure and others which cover 12 states and regions. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China donates equipment to support Ethiopia's agricultural modernization China donates 9,000 metric tons of emergency food aid to Ethiopia China donates over 2,000 metric tons of rice to WFP for school meals in South Sudan Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese-American player keen to grow NFL in ChinaVictims rememberedWorking goats