Photo taken on Aug. 26, 2019 shows a copy of the Palace Museum's newly-released themed calendar for the year 2020 in Beijing, capital of China. The Palace Museum, also known as the Forbidden City, on Monday released its themed calendar for the year 2020. (Photo: Xinhua)The Palace Museum, also known as the Forbidden City, on Monday released its themed calendar for the year 2020.The 2020 calendar features the architecture of the Forbidden City, displaying its beauty as well as related cultural relics and stories, according to its publisher -- the Forbidden City Publishing House.The publisher said the 2020 calendar has nine versions, including a traditional version and a Chinese-English bilingual version.The Palace Museum-themed calendar, a yearly publication to promote the collections and culture of the museum, has been one of the most popular souvenirs of the museum.  

Director of the Palace Museum Wang Xudong (R), as well as the museum's former directors Zheng Xinmiao (C) and Shan Jixiang, pose for a photo with a collection of the Palace Museum's themed calendars published in different years in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 26, 2019. The Palace Museum, also known as the Forbidden City, on Monday released its themed calendar for the year 2020. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Director of the Palace Museum Wang Xudong (R) displays signed copies of the Palace Museum's newly-released themed calendar for the year 2020 along with the museum's former directors Zheng Xinmiao (C) and Shan Jixiang in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 26, 2019. The Palace Museum, also known as the Forbidden City, on Monday released its themed calendar for the year 2020. (Photo: Xinhua)  

A visitor takes photos of a copy of the Palace Museum's themed calendar in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 26, 2019. The Palace Museum, also known as the Forbidden City, on Monday released its themed calendar for the year 2020. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Photo taken on Aug. 26, 2019 shows copies of the Palace Museum's newly-released themed calendar for the year 2020 in Beijing, capital of China. The Palace Museum, also known as the Forbidden City, on Monday released its themed calendar for the year 2020.(Photo: Xinhua)  

Photo taken on Aug. 26, 2019 shows a collection of the Palace Museum's themed calendars published in different years in Beijing, capital of China. The Palace Museum, also known as the Forbidden City, on Monday released its themed calendar for the year 2020. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Photo taken on Aug. 26, 2019 shows copies of the Palace Museum's newly-released themed calendar for the year 2020 in Beijing, capital of China. The Palace Museum, also known as the Forbidden City, on Monday released its themed calendar for the year 2020.(Photo: Xinhua)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Palace Museum improves visitor experience during peak season  Palace Museum and Vatican Museums hold joint exhibition in Beijing Flowers bloom in Palace Museum in Beijing, China Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US How Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrantsFootvolley tournamentChinese-American player keen to grow NFL in China