Visitors attend the China-Russia art exhibition on Thursday. Photo: Bi Mengying/GTAn exhibition of paintings by Russian and Chinese artists kicked off Thursday at the Russian Culture Center in Beijing to mark the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Russia.The five-day exhibition primarily focuses on three artists: Russian artists Igor Demchenkov and Natasha Erochkina, and Chinese artist Ke Jiandong. Demchenkov is known for his 2013 oil painting Guilin. The painting won him first prize in the scenery painting category in Russia's National Young Artists Contest. Demchenkov is a musician as well. As a visiting scholar to the Central Conservatory of Music in Beijing, he currently lives in the capital with his family. He also founded the Russian Aiyue Association in Beijing, an organization dedicated to promoting music exchanges between China and Russia.  "Painting and music cannot be separated from one another. As you can see on the wall, there is a series of my work called Four Seasons, which was named after and inspired by the music of Tchaikovsky," said Demchenkov at the opening ceremony of the exhibition. Erochkina has exhibited her work in Russia, China and many countries across Europe. She has been living in Beijing for more than a decade now and currently works as a primary school art teacher at the Russian Culture Center.   "I have always loved painting since I was a child… But painting isn't my favorite thing to do. Instead, it is teaching painting, particularly to children," she said at the opening.  Ke, a Chinese artist from East China's Fujian Province, is the founder of Dream Cubic, an art gallery in Beijing.  In discussing Russian painting's influence on his art, Ke mentioned that works by Russian realist painter llya Repin opened the door to painting for him. Ke noted that he hopes there can be more opportunities for cultural exchange  such as the exhibition between China and Russia in the future.    
        RELATED ARTICLES:  India Day celebration held at the International Horticultural Exhibition in Beijing Highlights of exhibition about old Beijing  Exhibition of Chinese traditional woodblock printing held at PSTA in London Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese-American player keen to grow NFL in ChinaVictims rememberedWorking goats