Venezuela's Permanent Representative to the United Nations Samuel Moncada speaks to journalists during a press conference at the UN headquarters in New York, Aug. 6, 2019. Samuel Moncada Tuesday called on the Security Council to investigate the threats recently imposed by the United States against his country. (Xinhua/Li Muzi) Venezuela's Permanent Representative to the United Nations Samuel Moncada said Tuesday that the "racist" Trump administration is trying to fabricate a war on Venezuela. The Trump administration, "the racist-ever administration in the history of this continent (American Continent), is trying to fabricate a war on Venezuela," Moncada told reporters at the UN headquarters in New York. "The militarization of the relations with Venezuela is one of the dangers that we are trying to expose," he noted. "We are asking the Security Council to exercise its powers expressed or written clearly" in Article 34 of the UN Charter, that gives the Security Council power to investigate any matter that could threaten the peace," said the ambassador. Moncada expressed the regret that "one permanent member" of the Security Council with the responsibility of obeying the international law, "is breaking international law and forcing the rest of the international community to support the breach of international law." US national security adviser John Bolton, addressing a summit on Venezuela in the Peruvian capital Lima on Tuesday, emphasized that tougher international action was needed to speed up a transition of power in the country. "The United States now is a threat to international peace, and we are asking the Security Council to take action," Moncada told reporters, adding that Bolton is "the enemy of dialogue." 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Venezuelan actors arrested over gay cops satirical play set free  US violating airspace to spark "incident": Venezuela Venezuela talks should have ‘no preconditions’ Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash