People wave the Chinese national flag and the flag of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region at a pier in Tsim Sha Tsui of Hong Kong, south China, Aug. 8, 2019. (Xinhua/Lui Siu Wai)Russia and China should exchange information on the interference of the United States in the internal affairs of the two countries, the Russian Foreign Ministry said Friday. The ministry's spokesperson Maria Zakharova said at a news briefing that Moscow is aware of Chinese statements that the United States interferes in Hong Kong affairs and it treats this information "with all seriousness." "Moreover, I think it would be right and useful to exchange such information through respective services," Zakharova said, adding that she and her Chinese colleagues will discuss the issue soon. Zakharova said the United States' secret service is using technology to destabilize Russia and China. Earlier on Friday, the Russian Foreign Ministry said it had summoned US Embassy Political Section head Tim Richardson, and presented him with an official protest against the US encouraging an unauthorized opposition rally on Aug. 3. The ministry criticized the United States for attempting to interfere in Russia's domestic affairs. Also on Friday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying called on the US side to immediately stop intervening in Hong Kong affairs and China's internal affairs. On Thursday, the Office of the Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of China in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region lodged stern representations with the US Consulate General in Hong Kong after a diplomat at the consulate general reportedly met with "Hong Kong independence" activists. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  First batch of Russian soybean cleared by Chinese customs Russia to produce INF-banned missiles if US does so: Putin Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash