Boeing 777, Cathay Pacific Airways, landing at YVR. Canada.Cathay Pacific Airways apologizes after a staff worker leaked the flight information of a group of Hong Kong police who flew to mainland city for a soccer game. Cathay Pacific is aware of the inappropriate behavior of an employee involving the misuse of company information during work hours, the airline said in a statement send to the Global Times on Wednesday.The company expresses "sincere apologies for this issue," and are conducting an internal investigation, the company said.Flight information of a Hong Kong police soccer team that flew to Chengdu in Southwest China's Sichuan Province was spread online, posts and pictures circulated online on Tuesday showed. The team arrived Chengdu on Tuesday."Dirty cops are going to play soccer," an apparent Cathay Pacific staff member said in a Whatsapp group chat, encouraging others to harass the police officers.Chinese Net users were shocked at these "vicious behaviors" after the case was released on Wednesday morning. Some even called for a boycott of Cathay Pacific. "It is not only a matter of professional ethics. It's also illegal! Any company with such behaviors should be severely punished," said a Net user on Sina Weibo. "That is terrible. Those who divulge passengers' personal information should be put into prison! I will never take their flights anymore," said another netizen whose comment received lots of likes."Leaking passengers' private information is illegal rather than just immoral. Cathay Pacific should make immediate moves once the matter is verified," Qi Qi, an independent market watcher told the Global Times on Wednesday.Netizens in Chinese mainland also strongly criticized the airline for alleged discrimination against Chinese mainland passengers, as many netizens called Cathy Pacific "arrogant and snobbish" for its double standards in the treatment of passengers who cannot speak English and Cantonese.    "They were so indifferent and impolite to me and others who can only speak Putonghua, and they just ignored me and refused to serve me a meal despite my repeated requests. However, they were quite hospitable toward English speakers and foreigners," one netizen wrote. Some netizens claimed that the flight attendants of Cathy Pacific have pretended that they do not understand Putonghua during service, and even complained about Chinese mainland passengers in Cantonese. Cathy Pacific has been in hot water since July, after its trade union representing Cathay Pacific's cabin crew called for a protest at the Hong Kong International Airport on July 26. Then, the news emerged that a Cathay Pacific pilot who was arrested on July 28 during the unrest was still being allowed to fly. This sparked great security concerns and distrust among the public.Letting a pilot who participated in violent riots fly a plane is like giving him a "big weapon," Lam Chi-ting, general secretary of the Hong Kong Tourism Industry Employees General Union, told the Global Times. "We all remember the 9/11 attacks, right?"The airline should reassure its customers by timely rolling out potential safety concerns and infringement of passengers' rights and interests, Qi added. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Cathay Pacific urged to clear Hong Kong stance as trade union protests Cathay Pacific urged to clear stance on HK following trade union post Cathay Pacific to buy budget airline HK Express from cash-strapped HNA for $628 million, helping carrier move into low-cost market Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash