German Chancellor Angela Merkel (L) shakes hands with visiting British Prime Minister Boris Johnson in Berlin, Germany, on Aug. 21, 2019. Angela Merkel and Boris Johnson on Wednesday reiterated the Brexit with a deal, but were different in approaches. (Xinhua/Lian Zhen) German Chancellor Angela Merkel and the visiting British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday reiterated the Brexit with a deal, but were different in approaches. In his first trip abroad since assuming office, Johnson called again for re-negotiations for the Brexit agreement between Britain and the European Union (EU) in order to avoid Britain leaving the bloc without a deal on Oct. 31. The EU, Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron have repeatedly rejected to renegotiate the Brexit deal with London. The Brexit deal made under Johnson's predecessor Theresa May was rejected three times by the British Parliament. The most disputed issue is how to prevent a new border between controls between the EU member Ireland and British Northern Ireland. At the joint press conference before the meeting, Johnson said he believed the so-called backstop, an arrangement in the withdrawal deal designed to avoid a hard border on the island of Ireland, had "grave, grave defects" and that it therefore "plainly has to go." "But once we get rid of it, if we change it, then I think there is the real prospect of making progress very rapidly indeed," Johnson added. Johnson said he was in favor of Britain leaving the EU with a negotiated deal in place, but stressed that he didn't think his predecessor, Theresa May, had made real alternative proposals to the backstop in order to ensure this happened. Merkel said the backstop was intended only as a transitional rule for the not finally resolved Ireland issue. So far, it has been assumed that a final solution will be found in the next two years. Merkel also emphasized the interest in a "negotiated withdrawal", but at the same time said that "We are also prepared if such a negotiated withdrawal does not exist". "But you might find them in the next 30 days. Why not? Then we're a long way ahead," said Merkel, adding that border controls between Northern Ireland and Ireland would become superfluous and that the integrity of the single market could be safeguarded if Britain and the EU re-define their future relations. Johnson said Britain and Germany stood shoulder to shoulder on many international issues, including in NATO and in the fight against climate change. Johnson is scheduled to visit Paris on Thursday to talk with Marcon. The two meetings are likely to help form consensus ahead of the G7 summit from Aug. 24 to 26 in Biarritz in southern France. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Dutch plan big Brexit beach party London, Brussels swap strong words over PM Johnson's Brexit demands Johnson Brexit letter offers no alternatives to Irish backstop: EU Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese-American player keen to grow NFL in ChinaVictims rememberedWorking goats