AirbusAirbus said recently that as of the first half of this year, there are more than 1,770 Airbus aircraft flying in the Chinese mainland, accounting for about half of the market share. It plans to deliver its two-thousandth aircraft to China next year.As of the end of July, the Chinese mainland has operated more than 240 A330 series aircraft, the largest multi-body aircraft model in China's aviation market. In the helicopter field, Airbus has delivered more than 300 helicopters to 83 Chinese users. In the past five years, the size of the Chinese helicopter fleet has seen an average annual growth rate of 20 percent. Airbus expects that the number of Chinese civilian helicopters will exceed 1,500 by 2022.Airbus predicted that China will add approximately 7,420 aircraft, including passenger and cargo planes, over the next 20 years. China's passenger traffic is much higher than the world average, and will grow at a rate of 6.4 percent over the same period.IATAThe International Air Transport Association (IATA) released data for global air freight markets showing that demand, measured in freight ton kilometers (FTK), decreased by 4.8 percent in June 2019, compared to the same period in 2018. This marks the eighth consecutive month of year-on-year decline in freight volumes.Signs of a modest recovery in recent months appear to have been premature, with the June contraction broadly-based across all regions with the exception of Africa. Capacity growth remains subdued and the cargo load factor continues to fall. Globally, trade growth is languishing, and business uncertainty is compounded by the latest tariff increases in the US-China trade dispute.Asia-Pacific airlines saw demand for air freight contract by 5.4 percent in June 2019, compared to the same period in 2018. Although an important factor, the US-China trade war is not solely responsible for the fall. FTKs for the internal Asia market have decreased more than 10 percent over the past year. IATA said that global passenger traffic results for June 2019 show that demand rose by 5 percent compared to June 2018. This was up slightly from the 4.7 percent year-on-year growth in May.Asia-Pacific airlines' June traffic rose 4 percent, compared to the same period last year, which was down from a 4.9 percent increase in May. US-China trade tensions have impacted demand in the broader Asia Pacific-North America market, and also within the inter-Asia market.  CAACThe Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) said that from January to July, total passenger traffic was 381 million individual trips, an increase of 8.7 percent year-on-year. The growth rate decreased by 3.4 percentage points compared with the same period last year. In July, driven by the robust trend of China's foreign trade, the industry completed a total of 616,000 tons of freight transportation, an increase of 4.2 percent year-on-year, and the growth rate increased by 5.3 percentage points from the previous month. Among them, domestic and international routes completed 41,000 tons and 206,000 tons respectively, up 6.7 percent and down 0.4 percent.From January to July, the whole industry completed a total of 4.129 million tons of freight transportation, down 0.5 percent year-on-year, and the growth rate decreased by 7.1 percentage points compared with the same period of last year.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Air China makes big Airbus purchase worth $6.5b British Airways steals Airbus’ show of best-seller A320neo Airbus celebrates 10th anniversary of JV in Harbin Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese-American player keen to grow NFL in ChinaVictims rememberedWorking goats