Radical protesters in Hong Kong block a road and assault police. Their behavior was widely condemned. Photo: Fan Lingzhi/GTThe current protests in Hong Kong have exceeded the intent of the original "anti-extradition bill" demonstrations and escalated to become a political reform movement in disguise that aims to "adjust the Basic Law," Peter Woo, Hong Kong business tycoon and owner of Harbour City, said in a statement on Sunday. The current movement is now about some people's intention to seek what they failed to achieve during the Occupy Central Movement in 2014, according to Woo's statement, who is also the former chairman of the Wharf Holdings Limited and a former member of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.The goal of the protests is to "contend for power with the central government and adjust the Basic Law," so that "the opposition force can take control of the legislative council of Hong Kong," the statement reads.The one and only major demand of the "anti-extradition bill" demonstrators was accepted by the government on July 9th. The extradition bill is "dead" and a debate of the wording is meaningless, Woo said.The violent demonstrations are a new political reform movement in disguise, and some people are using the "anti-extradition bill" to trick Hong Kong's  youth and the peaceful protesters who only turned out in June to oppose a single issue - the extradition bill, Woo added. "If things go on like this, there will be no winner, and the result will be just like the Occupy Central Movement five years ago," Woo said in his statement. Wharf Holdings Limited is a premier Hong Kong-based company and the parent company of Harbour City, one of the most popular destinations for Chinese mainland visitors.Woo's family enjoy a prestigious reputation in Hong Kong, together with other three well-known tycoons -Sir Ka-shing Li, Henry Cheng Kar-shun and Lee Shau-kee, according to the Beijing Cultural Review.The shopping mall was the focus of mainland anger, when on August 3 violent protesters removed the Chinese national flag from the pole at the Tsim Sha Tsui Star Ferry Pier and threw it into Victoria Harbour. Some patriotic Hong Kong residents launched a "Safeguard National Flag" campaign and raised the flag again.Woo also made it clear in his statement that he supports the police and Hong Kong regional government.Woo said while we all know the extradition bill is a thing of the past, those who advocate protests in Hong Kong are only trying to create something out of nothing, and the easiest way is to point fingers at police and even the family members of police. Protesters have forced the police to enforce the law by deliberately breaking the law and  they insult and abuse police for carrying out their duty, wrote Woo. They create controversial one-sided stories online everyday using recorded videos to provoke incidents, which will eventually stir up discontent among the public, causing strikes, traffic congestion and bringing society to a standstill, Woo said. What a perfect screen play, wrote Woo. Woo expressed his support for Chief Executive Carrie Lam of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, saying she has not betrayed Hong Kong as she listened to demand of peaceful demonstrators and announced the extradition bill dead. "Chief Executive Lam has no selfish motives. She is a 100 percent Hong Konger. Although she hasn't achieved to satisfy the public, she has put in a lot of effort. We should support her exercising government power as mandated by law." 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Hong Kong people express support for police, calling for end to violence HK mall that twice failed to protect China's national flag 'not welcome to police' Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash