A customer chooses gold bracelet at a jewelry shop in Yangon, Myanmar, Aug. 13, 2019. Myanmar's domestic gold price edged higher with around 1.23 million kyats (816 U.S. dollars) per tical on Tuesday, U Aung San Win, vice-chairman of Myanmar Entrepreneurs Association, told Xinhua. (Xinhua/U Aung)  

A salesperson shows gold ornaments at a jewelry shop in Yangon, Myanmar, Aug. 13, 2019. Myanmar's domestic gold price edged higher with around 1.23 million kyats (816 U.S. dollars) per tical on Tuesday, U Aung San Win, vice-chairman of Myanmar Entrepreneurs Association, told Xinhua. (Xinhua/U Aung)  



A salesperson arranges gold rings at a jewelry shop in Yangon, Myanmar, Aug. 13, 2019. Myanmar's domestic gold price edged higher with around 1.23 million kyats (816 U.S. dollars) per tical on Tuesday, U Aung San Win, vice-chairman of Myanmar Entrepreneurs Association, told Xinhua. (Xinhua/U Aung)  



A salesperson places a gold bracelet on the wrist of a customer at a jewelry shop in Yangon, Myanmar, Aug. 13, 2019. Myanmar's domestic gold price edged higher with around 1.23 million kyats (816 U.S. dollars) per tical on Tuesday, U Aung San Win, vice-chairman of Myanmar Entrepreneurs Association, told Xinhua. (Xinhua/U Aung)  



A customer shops for gold ornaments at a jewelry shop in Yangon, Myanmar, Aug. 13, 2019. Myanmar's domestic gold price edged higher with around 1.23 million kyats (816 U.S. dollars) per tical on Tuesday, U Aung San Win, vice-chairman of Myanmar Entrepreneurs Association, told Xinhua. (Xinhua/U Aung)   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Even with recovering gold prices, Barrick’s gamble on US rival is one part logic, two parts folly Gold price remains unchanged in Hong Kong Gold price opens higher in Hong Kong Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash