A seller is seen among his sheep at a livestock market ahead of Eid al-Adha festival in Sanaa, Yemen, Aug. 7, 2019. Eid al-Adha festival is one of the most important festivals for Muslims, which will begin on Aug. 11 this year in Yemen. (Photo by Mohammed Mohammed/Xinhua)  

A child pulls an ox at a livestock market ahead of Eid al-Adha festival in Sanaa, Yemen, Aug. 7, 2019. Eid al-Adha festival is one of the most important festivals for Muslims, which will begin on Aug. 11 this year in Yemen. (Photo by Mohammed Mohammed/Xinhua)  



A seller fills a container with water for animals at a livestock market ahead of Eid al-Adha festival in Sanaa, Yemen, Aug. 7, 2019. Eid al-Adha festival is one of the most important festivals for Muslims, which will begin on Aug. 11 this year in Yemen. (Photo by Mohammed Mohammed/Xinhua)  



People carry sheep they bought at a livestock market ahead of Eid al-Adha festival in Sanaa, Yemen, Aug. 7, 2019. Eid al-Adha festival is one of the most important festivals for Muslims, which will begin on Aug. 11 this year in Yemen. (Photo by Mohammed Mohammed/Xinhua)  



A seller pulls an ox for a customer at a livestock market ahead of Eid al-Adha festival in Sanaa, Yemen, Aug. 7, 2019. Eid al-Adha festival is one of the most important festivals for Muslims, which will begin on Aug. 11 this year in Yemen. (Photo by Mohammed Mohammed/Xinhua)  



A seller counts money at a livestock market ahead of Eid al-Adha festival in Sanaa, Yemen, Aug. 7, 2019. Eid al-Adha festival is one of the most important festivals for Muslims, which will begin on Aug. 11 this year in Yemen. (Photo by Mohammed Mohammed/Xinhua)  



Sellers are seen with animals at a livestock market ahead of Eid al-Adha festival in Sanaa, Yemen, Aug. 7, 2019. Eid al-Adha festival is one of the most important festivals for Muslims, which will begin on Aug. 11 this year in Yemen. (Photo by Mohammed Mohammed/Xinhua)  



Sellers display goats for sale at a livestock market ahead of Eid al-Adha festival in Sanaa, Yemen, Aug. 7, 2019. Eid al-Adha festival is one of the most important festivals for Muslims, which will begin on Aug. 11 this year in Yemen. (Photo by Mohammed Mohammed/Xinhua)   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Muslims prepare for upcoming Eid al-Adha festival  Palestinian vendor prepares traditional cookies for Eid al-Adha in Nablus  Sellers seen at livestock market ahead of Eid al-Adha festival  People trade at livestock market ahead of Eid al-Adha festival in Pakistan Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash