The #JYPE_CancelGOT7HKConcerts campain
 

Jackson Wang's Weibo update 
 

GOT7 Photo: IC
 

Jackson Wang Photo: IC
 
 
Fans of K-pop band GOT7 are turning to Twitter to call for the cancelation of the band's upcoming concerts in China's Hong Kong due to safety concerns due to the riots caused the ongoing protests in the city. 
The seven-member boy band, whose members include American-Chinese singer Mark Tuan and China's Hong Kong singer Jackson Wang, has scheduled two concerts for August 31 and September 1 as part of their 2019 Keep Spinning World Tour.  
Fearing for the safety of GOT 7, especially Jackson Wang, fans have called on the band's agency JYP Entertainment to cancel the concerts through the hashtags #JYPE_CancelGOT7HKConcerts and #JYPE홍콩콘서트취소 on Twitter, which quickly entered the trending list. Fans have posted screenshots of messages threatening the star made under Wang's most recent update on China's Twitter-like Sina Weibo in which he said he is a guardian of China's national flag. 
The threatening messages include one's sharing GOT7's flight information and talking about "detaining him while tearing the Chinese flag to shreds in front of him," and even "forcing him to hold a flag of blood."
On Twitter, K-pop fans, including followers of groups like BTS, showed anger toward JYP Entertainment for not canceling the scheduled shows in Hong Kong, noting that other K-pop bands and Chinese singers such as EXO member Zhang Yixing have canceled events.   
 "Hello, @jypnation We are worried about the boys safety. Please, cancel GOT7's Hong Kong tour. We, think their safety is a priority. ARMY supporting iGoT7 @GOT7Official #JYPE_GOT7_홍콩콘_취소해 #JYPE_CancelGOT7HKConcerts," tweeted Daniela - 다니엘라.
On GOT7's official Sina Weibo account, Chinese fans have left hundreds of messages asking them to cancel the shows. 
"The best solution is cancelation. Otherwise, change it to Guangzhou or Shenzhen," said one user.
"Although I know you won't cancel the shows, please hire more guards for them," said another user. 
JYP Entertainment has yet to release any statements about the social media campaign.
  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  K-pop band EXO performs at S.Korea’s Blue House for US President Donald Trump South Korean court to rule on arresting K-pop star  K-pop phenomenon BTS first South Korean act to top UK album chart Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash