Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping met with then-British prime minister Margaret Thatcher in Beijing on Sept 24, 1982. Photo: XinhuaIn commemoration of late statesman Deng Xiaoping's 115th birthday, Chinese people on Thursday flooded social media with comments hailing Deng's insights on Hong Kong as protests in the city entered their 11th week. From Thursday morning, Chinese internet users reposted on China's Twitter-like Sina Weibo numerous quotes by Deng including "Sovereignty is not discussable," "China will never accept others to interfere in its internal affairs" and "A limit and standard for Hong Kong residents to manage Hong Kong on their own is their love for the region and the motherland." A Weibo post by People's Daily was liked more than 110,000 times and reposted more than 36,000 times as of press time. Deng proposed the "one country, two systems" principle in the 1980s in preparation for the return of Hong Kong, which became the principle for Hong Kong people to administer the city.  Some netizens also posted lyrics to Pearl of the Orient, which include "Please don't forget my yellow face that never changes" to emphasize the close ties between Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland. The online wave was seen as mainland netizens' response to escalating protests in Hong Kong which have entered their 11th consecutive week. Fan Peng, a member of the Chinese Association of Hong Kong and Macao Studies, told the Global Times on Thursday that Deng's quotes showed his foresight on potential challenges to "one country, two systems" given Hong Kong's special status and complicated social composition.  In its 22nd year as a Special Administrative Region of China, Hong Kong has overcome two major financial crises under the principle of "one country, two systems," analysts said.  The protests threatened social stability and economy, but are also an opportunity for the central government to address social problems in Hong Kong, especially those concerning the younger generation, Fan said. People around China held a variety of activities to commemorate Deng, who is also the chief architect of China's reform and opening up. His quotes such as "Reform is the only way for China to develop its productive forces" and "It doesn't matter if a cat is black or white, so long as it catches mice" were remembered by tens of thousands. An exhibition of paintings, calligraphy and photographs inspired by Deng's life story was held from Tuesday to Thursday in Deng's hometown, Guang'an of Southwest China's Sichuan Province. Qingdao in East China's Shandong Province issued special envelops to commemorate Deng, who inspected Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) Navy stationed in the city in 1979. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Taiwan aids radical HK riots HK youngsters need more publications of positive values: publisher  British consulate employee in HK detained in Shenzhen for violating China’s rules Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese-American player keen to grow NFL in ChinaVictims rememberedWorking goats