A fresh round of demonstrations took place in Mong Kok, Hong Kong on Saturday, and again they led to violence. At one point, a group of radical protestors removed a Chinese national flag from a pole and tossed it into the sea. In addition, they raised a flag with slogans such as "Independent Hong Kong." These acts of flag desecration have sparked widespread condemnation from both Hong Kong citizens and Chinese mainlanders alike.On Saturday night, some protesters surrounded Tsim Sha Tsui police station and set fire to police vehicles. Police were forced to use tear gas to disperse the crowd. Some protesters also besieged police cars in the Wong Tai Sin area late Saturday night. Clearly, the escalation of violence in the region is challenging national sovereignty and the authority of Hong Kong police.It has become an uphill battle for Hong Kong police to safeguard the rule of law and social order because laws and police are despised by the protesters. Assaulting police officers and desecrating the flag are both felony offenses. However, the mob is becoming bolder, which spurs them on to flout the laws.One of the most effective ways to regain control of the situation is to arrest the radicals. Since they have committed multiple crimes including assaulting police, property damage and arson, Hong Kong police are within their rights to make arrests. Even when they cannot make on-site arrests, police can gather evidence and track down the suspects. It may be a lengthy process to bring the thugs to justice but making on-site arrests will be a good deterrent for radical protesters. Police authority will also be restored.After all, the radicals make up only a very small part of the total population of Hong Kong. Though some Hong Kong residents may not yet realize the full extent of the damage caused by these violent demonstrations, those responsible are definitely limited in number. Hong Kong police must arrest all violent protesters involved. Even if it is difficult to do so in practice, it needs to be a principle that Hong Kong police adhere to.The police are following the law. Despite the fact that some officers might be harassed by protesters, it would never become an all-out attack on the police force in general. Some citizens may not know that police are upholding Hong Kong's rule of law, but sooner or later they will understand. Hong Kong society needs a police force that is highly professional and is loyal to the law. Although Hong Kong's spirit of the rule of law is temporarily dented, it will be restored.Moreover, neither the central government nor the 1.4 billion Chinese people will allow the complete collapse of the rule of law in Hong Kong. A few radical protesters may temporarily disrupt the order of things, but they can never take over this city. There is no way they can take control, nor rewrite the law and rules of Hong Kong according to their will.Therefore, Hong Kong police are fully entitled to exercise their authority to strictly enforce the law. It is legal for them to arrest the violent demonstrators, while disregarding their objections.Patriots should fully support Hong Kong police and condemn the defamation directed towards them. One of the best ways to end the chaotic situation in Hong Kong is to restore police authority and allow them discretion to fight against radical protesters. With the support of patriots from both Hong Kong and Chinese mainland, Hong Kong police can fully exercise their powers according to the law, and Hong Kong's social order will be maintained.The radicals are nothing but cowards trapped by utopian illusions. Only can relentless law enforcement wake them up so they will realize that Hong Kong has never abandoned the rule of law or the force to defend it.The crimes conducted by a number of radical protesters are intolerable in any legal system. Hong Kong police will not back down from threats by violent protesters. Hong Kong, a society ruled by law, demands justice be served. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Video: Hong Kong anti-government protesters blocked tunnel toll gate at Hung Hom  Patriotic hearts still beat in Hong Kong after more unrest Video: patriotic heart still beats in HongKong Video: Hong kong radical protesters surrounded Tsim Sha Tsui police station Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash