○ The "Gang of Four" in Hong Kong have been criticized for using freedom and democracy as a guise and young students as cannon fodder.○ The young leaders of separatist forces in Hong Kong will study at universities in the US and the UK, leaving the majority of youths as "cannon fodder" for the "Gang of Four" in HK.

Protesters gather at Hong Kong city center on Monday. Photo: Fan Lingzhi/GTOn June 2, 2018, Hong Kong barrister Martin Lee Chu-ming attended the wedding ceremony of his son Joseph and Kitty Kwok, the daughter of Simon Kwok Siu-ming, who is the chairman of Sa Sa International Holdings Limited.Less than 48 hours after the wedding, Lee was on the street, trumpeting his revolutionary experience of defending Hong Kong's "democracy" and opposing "tyranny" in front of media.Lee is known as a member of the "Gang of Four" endangering Hong Kong. Many see him as a traitor.Young people misled by Lee have become violent protesters in Hong Kong. However, Lee's son has had an amazing life thanks to his father. He went to the famous Winchester College, studied law in the UK and married the daughter of a rich family.The "Gang of Four" - Martin Lee Chu-ming, Anson Chan Fang On-sang, Jimmy Lai Chee-ying and Albert Ho Chun-yan - have been criticized for using freedom and democracy as a guise and young students as cannon fodder, said a post on the WeChat public account of People's Daily on Saturday.Creating chaosOn December 9, 1998, Lee for the first time proposed that the Hong Kong government arrange for the transfer of criminals between the Chinese mainland and Hong Kong on the grounds that "the fugitives endangered the peace of Hong Kong."However, when Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam initiated the extradition bill to close these judicial loopholes in April this year, Lee vigorously opposed it. On May 16, as a former Hong Kong legislator, Lee met US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. On June 11, US Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi released a statement in support of protesters in Hong Kong and spoke out against the proposed extradition law. Obviously, Lee held discussions with senior US officials on a strategy to leverage the anti-extradition bill to disrupt Hong Kong's order.Before the anti-extradition bill demonstration, Lee had lunch on June 12 with former Democratic Party lawmaker Lee Wing-tat, who is one of the nine Occupy activists and was found guilty of involvement in the 2014 illegal Occupy protests by a Hong Kong court on April 9 this year. 

The "Gang of Four" in Hong Kong (from top left clockwise): Martin Lee Chu-ming, Albert Ho Chun-yan, Jimmy Lai Chee-ying and Anson Chan Fang On-sang Photos: AFPRight after the lunch meeting, protesters in the demonstration agreed to escalate their actions at 3 pm, and violently attacked the police line of defense in the legislative council. Since May 2017, Lee has repeatedly traveled to countries including the US, the UK and Canada to discuss topics such as appealing to the international community to intervene in Hong Kong affairs, blaming the "one country, two systems" principle. He suggested looking for opportunities to create chaos in Hong Kong. According to informed sources, he plans to travel to the US again in mid-September with his peers including Joshua Wong Chi-fung to push the US Congress to pass the new "Hong Kong Bill of Rights and Democracy", which will develop a direct channel for intervention in Hong Kong affairs. The move will create continuous turmoil in Hong Kong society, said Changanjian, a WeChat account affiliated to the Commission for Political and Legal Affairs of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China.Lee and Lai also joined forces and published byline articles for Lee in the Hong Kong-based pro-secession newspaper Apple Daily. These articles incited Hong Kong citizens to participate in anti-extradition bill protests and strongly urged violent confrontation with the Hong Kong government and police.Change of face Among the "Gang of Four," Chan is unique. She was previously an official of the British colonial government of Hong Kong. After Hong Kong's return to China, she served as chief secretary for administration in the Hong Kong government. In March, Chan and several other opposition activists went to the US to "complain" about Hong Kong's democracy, human rights and "one country, two systems," People's Daily WeChat account said Saturday.They begged the US to put pressure on China, and met with Vice President Mike Pence, Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi and officials from the US National Security Council, according to the People's Daily WeChat post.On August 3, she secretly met a number of foreigners with Lai and other opposition leaders. Three days later, she met with Julie Eadeh, the political unit chief of the US Consulate General in Hong Kong.As a senior official of the Hong Kong government, she has never forgotten about Britain, and is called an "evil remnant of the British in Hong Kong" by Hong Kong residents, according to Wen Wei Po.Looking back at Chan's career, it is easy to see that she never asked her British masters for democracy during her time in Hong Kong. After retiring from the Hong Kong government, she began to change her face and suddenly talked about democracy, according to Beijing Evening News.

 She expects British influence to continue in Hong Kong, saying that nothing has changed except the flag and the governor has been replaced by a chief executive, according to Ta Kung Pao.When she was chief secretary for administration, she opposed the "Mandarin teaching plan" in Hong Kong schools. Wikileaks released classified documents from the US embassy revealing that Chan ostensibly supported "one country, two systems" while secretly selling information to US, news website thepaper.com reported on Saturday.Behind the curtain Lai, founder of Hong Kong-based news media Next Digital and Apple Daily, as well as the most active member of the "Gang of Four," reportedly financed the illegal "Occupy Central" in 2014. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs called him "scum of the nation" who is willing to become a political tool of external forces to oppose the Chinese mainland and disrupt Hong Kong for personal interests. Hong Kong residents held large banners condemning him as a "US hatchet man," the CCTV reported on Thursday.Lai met with US Vice President Mike Pence, the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and US National Security Adviser John Bolton respectively from July 8 to 11, and published his speech in the New York Times saying that the West and China should compete in terms of value systems on the sidelines of the trade war. On July 9, Lai also made explicit remarks claiming that Hong Kong is fighting for the US, according to the Voice of America.On August 3, violent protesters marched in Hong Kong's Mongkok district, assembled a crowd and engaged in affray in front of the Tsim Sha Tsui police. Meanwhile, local media reported that Lai was holding a secret meeting with two foreigners together with other leading figures. Lai has maintained close contact with US political forces and provided multiple "donations" to US political parties through his assistant Mark Simon since 2003. In 2008, Lai donated money three times to John McCain, who was then presidential candidate for the Republican Party. Simon, who plays an important role in Lai's behind-the-scenes maneuvering, is a former US intelligence agent, CCTV reported.Apart from Lai's youngest son, all eight members of Lai's family, including Lai, hold UK passports and are working or studying in the UK, said Ta Kung Pao, another news outlet based in Hong Kong. It is obvious that Lai has made preparations to flee Hong Kong if the city is plunged into chaos.Ho, the last one of the "Gang of Four," one of the brains behind the illegal "Occupy Central," participated in the election for Hong Kong's Chief Executive in 2012, winning just 6.3 percent of the vote. On July 27, Ho was photographed with Lai at the anti-government protest in Hong Kong's Yuen Long district.Young generationSome young leaders of separatist forces in Hong Kong are closely following in the steps of the "Gang of Four." Among them, Wong Chi-fung, Nathan Law Kwun-chung and Alex Chow Yong-kang have stood out.Born in 1996, anti-mainland political activist Joshua Wong Chi-fung is seen as "a vanguard" by the Hong Kong opposition camp. The young man took part in the 2014 Occupy Central Movement and tried to break China's "one country, two systems" principle, the People's Daily post said. Wong took the initiative to invite foreign forces to meddle in Hong Kong affairs. When pressed, he acknowledged his meeting on August 6 with Julie Eadeh, a political unit chief at the US Consulate General. During a 38-minute live online session on August 11, Wong took out masks and helmets to show how violent protesters had upgraded their equipment and spread anti-police sentiment, People's Daily said through its WeChat account. He repeatedly called for an illegal gathering at the Hong Kong airport. Nathan Law Kwun-chung, also 26, who went to Hong Kong from Shenzhen at the age of 6, is a key figure who has supported the recent protests in Hong Kong. In August, he fabricated rumors against the police, saying "multiple clashes are 'highly possible' and were 'provoked' by 'undercover officers,'" the report said. However, on the night of August 14, as Hong Kong airport was paralyzed, Law posted on Facebook that he had arrived in New York to continue his studies at Yale University. Mingpao said it takes 15 hours to fly directly from Hong Kong to the US, but what method did Law use, as the airport was seriously disrupted? Or, did he fly before the airport was brought to a standstill?In March, "Occupy" activist Alex Chow Yong-kang lobbied US congressmen to further research the topic of democracy development in Hong Kong. He also participated in the protests on square of the Consulate General of China in New York on August 10.The Hong Kong media reported that the key leaders of pro-independance activists have been to or are soon going to study either in the US or the UK universities.On Saturday, People's Daily published an article on its WeChat account condemning the "Gang of Four" in Hong Kong, saying: "We sternly warn the mob in Hong Kong: stop dreaming of being against China and endangering Hong Kong! Stop dreaming of a 'color revolution!'"Global Times 
Newspaper headline: ‘Gang of Four’ in HK 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Hong Kong police confident about defusing chaotic situations There is no doubt that US is partly responsible for the unrest in Hong Kong Overseas Chinese rally against Hong Kong secessionists and violence Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese-American player keen to grow NFL in ChinaVictims rememberedWorking goats