Pastry chef Yulia applies flour onto a Medovik cake dough at a factory in Moscow, Russia, Aug. 28, 2019. Medovik is a Slavic layer cake with cream filling, often covered with cake crumbs. The main ingredients are honey, flour, butter and milk. The pastry was invented in the early 19th century and gained popularity during the Soviet era. (Xinhua/Bai Xueqi)  

Pastry chef Yulia prepares for a Medovik cake dough at a factory in Moscow, Russia, Aug. 28, 2019. Medovik is a Slavic layer cake with cream filling, often covered with cake crumbs. The main ingredients are honey, flour, butter and milk. The pastry was invented in the early 19th century and gained popularity during the Soviet era. (Xinhua/Bai Xueqi)  

Photo taken on Aug. 28, 2019 shows a finished Medovik cake in Moscow, Russia. Medovik is a Slavic layer cake with cream filling, often covered with cake crumbs. The main ingredients are honey, flour, butter and milk. The pastry was invented in the early 19th century and gained popularity during the Soviet era. (Xinhua/Bai Xueqi)  

Pastry chef Yulia decorates a nearly finished Medovik cake with a blueberry in Moscow, Russia, on Aug. 28, 2019. Medovik is a Slavic layer cake with cream filling, often covered with cake crumbs. The main ingredients are honey, flour, butter and milk. The pastry was invented in the early 19th century and gained popularity during the Soviet era. (Xinhua/Bai Xueqi)  

A customer cuts a Medovik cake at a cafe in Moscow, Russia, on Aug. 28, 2019. Medovik is a Slavic layer cake with cream filling, often covered with cake crumbs. The main ingredients are honey, flour, butter and milk. The pastry was invented in the early 19th century and gained popularity during the Soviet era. (Xinhua/Bai Xueqi)  

Photo taken on Aug. 28, 2019 shows Medovik cakes for sale at a cafe in Moscow, Russia. Medovik is a Slavic layer cake with cream filling, often covered with cake crumbs. The main ingredients are honey, flour, butter and milk. The pastry was invented in the early 19th century and gained popularity during the Soviet era. (Xinhua/Bai Xueqi)   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Restaurant returns fortune hidden in cake to surprised birthday girl Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US How Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrantsFootvolley tournamentChinese-American player keen to grow NFL in China