A new Chinese medical team has arrived in the tropical South Pacific nation of Papua New Guinea (PNG) and started working in Port Moresby, the Chinese embassy in PNG said on Monday. The 10th Chinese medical team was composed of nine members from hospitals in southwest China's Chongqing Municipality, including doctors specialized in urology, gynecology, oncology, cardio-thoracic surgery and acupuncture. The team completed handover with the 9th medical team and would stay in PNG for about one year. The team members will continue to work in the Port Moresby General Hospital (PMGH), provide extensive medical training and education to local medical staff, and promote the construction of Sino-PNG Center for Urology Minimally Invasive Surgery in PMGH. The team will also visit other provinces and cities to provide free medical services and medicines to local people. The team will try to conduct minimal invasive surgery in some other areas such as gynecology and cardio-thoracic surgery, and make better use of acupuncture to help patients with chronic pain, said team leader Li Yanping. PNG health secretary Pascoe Kase spoke highly of the Chinese medical teams, which provided high-quality service to local people, conducted friendly cooperation and exchanges with local doctors, and promote the hygiene level of the country. He said the health department will continue to support the medical team and provide assistance. The Chinese medical program started in 2002. China has so far dispatched 10 medical teams consisted of 100 members. Till 2018, medical team members have provided medical services to more than 100,000 PNG people and offered more than 1,000 medical trainings to local medical personnel. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Chinese medical team to help treat another 100 Mongolian children with heart disease Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash