Type 88A tank demonstrates its shooting ability at the opening ceremony of the International Army Games 2019 on Saturday in Korla, Xinjiang. Photo: Cui Meng/GT

A crew of the Chinese team passes the water zone, leading the "Suvorov Attack" race on the first-day of the IAG competition on Sunday in Korla, Xinjiang. Photo: Cui Meng/GT

Chinese soldiers take a photo with their national flag after leading in the "Suvorov Attack" on Sunday in Korla, Xinjiang. Photo: Cui Meng/GT 

Chinese soldiers in the "Gunsmith Master" competition. Photo: Cui Meng/GT

Long-range rockets are fired at the IAG 2019 opening ceremony on Saturday in Korla, Xinjiang. Photo: Cui Meng/GTChina has led in two competitions in the International Army Games (IAG) 2019 up until Monday. The opening ceremony of the competitions hosted by China as part of the IAG 2019 was held on Saturday in Korla, Northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, with a total of 24 teams from 12 countries competing in four races including the "Suvorov Attack," "Clear Sky," "Safe Environment" and "Gunsmith Master."China topped the first-day rankings of the "Suvorov Attack" single-vehicle race. China, Iran and Zimbabwe participated in the first day of racing, with Iran ranking second and Zimbabwe following in third. Sunday's "Suvorov Attack" is a contest where each country fields three crews driving one infantry fighting vehicle. By drawing lots, the teams of Belarus, Russia and Venezuela will join the second group match on August 10. The first four national teams competing in the single-vehicle race qualify for the relay race scheduled on August 15.China's second crew finished a series of missions in 16 minutes and 12.95 seconds, including quick shot and obstacle crossing, outpacing eight other crews from China, Iran and Zimbabwe in the first group match and meanwhile breaking last year's records of 16 minutes and 54 seconds. Other competing countries all took more than 20 minutes to finish the race."To guarantee the fairness and justice of the races, sideline judges are set at all obstacles. The whole competing process is recorded and results of the shooting targets are double-checked by human[s] and automatically," said Su Rong, Chief Judge of the "Suvorov Attack" race."The quick shot and obstacle crossing have reached the limit of military equipment, which demonstrates a great combination of soldier[s' skills] and weapon," Su said.China again led the second-day competition of the "Gunsmith Master," finishing the race in 17 minutes and 18.6 seconds. Another five countries participating in the games include Russia, Kazakhstan, Armenia, Iran and Uzbekistan.The "Gunsmith Master" race requires soldiers to examine and repair the howitzer in as short amount of time as possible and then pass various kinds of obstacles including a combustion zone, mine field, water zone, etc. "The Chinese teams' good performances in the first two days in the IAG definitely are an indicator of their outstanding capabilities,"a Beijing-based military expert who asked for anonymity told the Global Times."One thing to notice is that this is the first time these Chinese units are taking part in the IAG as they are not specially trained for the game, so this also reflects their hard work in everyday training," the expert added. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Spectacular International Army Games Chinese team claimed first victory at ‘Suvorov Attack’ race in Korla, NW China’s Xinjiang PLA teams prepare for International Army Games Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash