Photo taken on Aug. 11, 2019 shows an injured Hong Kong police officer. One police officer was seriously injured as gasoline bombs were thrown at police officers at multiple locations in Hong Kong on Sunday night. (Xinhua) 

Photo taken on Aug. 11, 2019 shows the hand of an injured Hong Kong police officer. One police officer was seriously injured as gasoline bombs were thrown at police officers at multiple locations in Hong Kong on Sunday night. (Xinhua) The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) government in early morning of Monday condemned violent acts of protesters occurring on Sunday, with some even hurling petrol bombs, causing injuries of a police officer. In unlawful assemblies in various districts, violent protesters vandalized public property, blocked roads, besieged police stations, and aimed laser beams and hurled bricks to attack police officers, a spokesperson of the HKSAR government said in a statement. "We are outraged by the violent protesters' behaviours which showed a total disregard of the law, posing a serious threat to the safety of police officers and other members of the public," the spokesperson said. "We severely condemn the acts." Due to the persistent and large-scale illegal and violent acts, some public facilities were closed early and emergency services and commercial activities were obstructed, the spokesperson said, stressing that the right of ordinary people to carry on their daily lives was deprived. "We appeal to all members of the public to say no to violence to help the community to restore order as soon as possible," the spokesperson said. "The police will enforce the law strictly and resolutely to bring illegal protesters to justice."  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Association of Hong Kong Flag-guards holds flag raising ceremony at middle school  More evidence shows US diplomats' engagement in Hong Kong riots Hong Kong rioters attack police with petrol bombs Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash