BoeingBoeing has said it is hosting pilots, engineers and technical leaders from China's largest airlines for another series of open discussions about the 737 MAX this week. This is the second round of meetings pertaining to the 737 MAX issue since the model was grounded by the Chinese regulator in March.The new round of meetings kicked off in Guangzhou, South China's Guandong province, and has been attended by pilots and representatives from MAX operator China Southern Airlines. The series of meetings will continue this week at various locations around China.The company said there will be more briefings with MAX operators. These will take place in Haikou with Hainan Airlines, in Beijing with Air China, in Xiamen with Xiamen Airlines and in Shanghai with China Eastern Airlines.Cathay PacificThe Cathay Pacific Group reported an attributable profit of HK$1.35 billion ($171.8 million) for the first six months of 2019. This compares to an attributable loss of HK$263 million in the first half of 2018. The core airline business and overall group business both achieved a profit in the reporting period. The group said the effects of geopolitical and Sino-US trade tensions are among the factors expected to contribute to a challenging second half for the company. The current situation in Hong Kong has also had an impact on the business. Chief Customer and Commercial Officer Paul Loo said that the Hong Kong SAR is a part of China and, under the 'One Country, Two Systems' framework, they are confident of the long-term development of Hong Kong and the company.Air ChinaAir China said it will cancel the flight from Beijing to Hawaii from August 27 due to the network and capacity arrangement problems. In August last year, Hawaiian Airlines announced its decision to suspend its three-times-weekly, nonstop service between Honolulu and Beijing. So far, only China Eastern Airlines operates a direct flight from Shanghai to Hawaii. Qi Qi, an aviation expert told the Global Times that the move is due to the fact that Hawaii could be replaced by other destinations easily, and that it is necessary for the airline to stop the service if there is no profit. The carrier could change the slot to other potential international routes.COMACThe chief designer of the home-made C919 program has said that the aircraft aims to obtain its certificate of airworthiness in 2021, marking the first time an official has given a clear timetable for the certificate target. Wu Guanghui, chief designer for the C919 program, made this announcement in a speech at a forum recently held in Suzhou, East China's Jiangsu Province, the China News Service reported on Wednesday.Wu said that the independent development of commercial aircraft in China is a three-step process. The first is the ARJ series, regional jets with 78 to 90 seats and flying speeds of 2,250 to 3,700 kilometers. The second is the C919, which has a large flying distance range of 4,075 to 5,555 kilometers and seat capacity of 156 to 168. Last is the CR929, a long-distance, wide-body passenger aircraft with 280 seats and a 12,000-kilometer flying distance capability. The ARJ was in development since 2002 and had its maiden flight in 2008. At present, 13 aircraft have been delivered, with 26 operational routes.The C919 project began in 2008, and exited the assembly line in 2015; its maiden flight was in 2017. Last week, a fourth C919 had its first test flight in Shanghai, and two further aircraft will follow in the second half of this year, showing it has truly entered the test flying stage. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Boeing holds fresh discussions with Chinese airlines on 737 MAX Boeing looking to Chinese market for freighter capacity expansion Boeing posts biggest loss yet on 737 MAX Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash