A map of China with caption reading "China without any part left out" Photo: People's Daily Sina Weibo account Some 29 of the world's top 500 companies has been asked to rectify online maps that incorrectly portray China's territory in the first half of 2019, the Chinese authority said. China has also inspected maps used at major conferences and exhibitions by official departments in the first half of 2019, China's Ministry of Natural Resources said on Friday. "Problem maps" were found in the online news related to the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, on websites related to the Belt and Road initiative and the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations, and the maps have been rectified, the ministry said. To raise public awareness, the ministry said China will launch a nationwide promotion to provide knowledge on maps in schools, local communities and media in August. China set August 29 as national surveying and mapping day in 2002. In 2018, the ministry examined 8,546 maps and over 500,000 images of maps. It has destroyed over 290,000 incorrect maps printed in Shenzhen, South China's Guangdong Province and East China's Shandong Province. In March 2019, Chinese customs authorities in Qingdao, Shandong seized and destroyed 30,000 incorrect world maps, with problems including rendering Taiwan as a country and the wrong depiction of the Sino-Indian border - the largest number to be disposed of in recent years. The maps were produced by a company in East China's Anhui Province and were on the way to being sold to an unspecified foreign country.Incorrect maps have also been seen in movies, TV series and publications and in some foreign companies. German carmaker Audi apologized in 2017 for using an inaccurate China map at its annual press conference and Japanese electronics maker Kyocera apologized in 2018 for only showing half of China's territory on a map from its Chinese website.Usually, the incorrect maps mistakenly or fail to portray China's Diaoyu Islands, islands in the South China Sea and the island of Taiwan, the borderline in South Tibet region and Aksai Chin. National maps reflect a country's sovereignty, political and diplomatic stance. "Problem maps" damage the unification of State sovereignty, territorial integrity, and national interests, the ministry said. The recent discussion on "problem maps" surfaced after a popular TV drama Go Go Squid showed a map that failed to identify the island of Taiwan, Hainan Province, South Tibet and Aksai Chin as part of China. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  TV drama under fire for using wrong map Huawei applies for license to make high-precision digital maps, heralds a move further into self-driving sector MAC apologizes for omitting Taiwan on map of China in promotional email Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash