Chinese brands in the sectors of technology and automobile are winning the hearts of Peruvians as they offer high-quality products featuring cutting-edge technological advances. These popular brands include Huawei, Lenovo, Xiaomi and Hisense, to name a few. According to figures from the Peruvian Ministry of Foreign Trade and Tourism, in the importers' group stands out Huawei, whose mobile phones have been very well-received in the Peruvian market. Joseph Perez, a 22-year-old student who studies business administration at Certus Institute, is one of the Peruvians who claimed to have very nice experiences with Huawei phone. Perez told Xinhua that he got his first Huawei mobile phone when he was 17 and has stayed with the brand ever since. "The first product that I bought was a Huawei Y5 phone. It was very useful for me and the best thing is that there are various models at very affordable prices," he recalled. "Today I have a Huawei P9 cellphone, a model that has an excellent camera, with which I can take high-definition photos. I am happy with the product," he said. What Perez enjoys the most about these Chinese products, he added, is "their speed and how user-friendly they are." Aside from technology brands, Chinese brands of vehicles, such as Haval, Faw, Baic, Foton, Chery, Great Wall, JAC and Changan, are also gaining popularity in the South American country market, according to TodoAuto, a major car-dealing platform in Peru. Chinese brands earned the good impression due to "the way in which they have positioned themselves, and grow in popularity in Peru at the same time as the public gets to know their quality and to try their products," said Jose Tam, president of the Peru-China Chamber of Commerce. "For Peruvians, their preference on Chinese products lies in their price-performance ratio, which is more affordable compared to other products of similar quality from developed countries," he said. His opinion was shared by a researcher at the Asian Studies Center of the National University of San Marcos, Maria Osterloh, who noted that Chinese brands such as Huawei, Lenovo, Haval, Changan and Alibaba are already well known by Peruvian consumers. Chinese products have been widely accepted because "they are affordable and have a great variety," she said. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Huawei unveils 5G phone; Chinese brands to ‘dominate’  Tencent, Alibaba most valuable Chinese brands: brand consultancy Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese-American player keen to grow NFL in ChinaVictims rememberedWorking goats