German Chancellor Angela Merkel (R) talks with a policeman during the German Federal Government Open Day in Berlin, Germany, on Aug. 18, 2019. Major political institutions of German Federal Government, including German Chancellery, opened to the public on Saturday and Sunday. (Xinhua/Shan Yuqi)  

German Chancellor Angela Merkel (C) attends the German Federal Government Open Day in Berlin, Germany, on Aug. 18, 2019. Major political institutions of German Federal Government, including German Chancellery, opened to the public on Saturday and Sunday. (Xinhua/Shan Yuqi)  



German Chancellor Angela Merkel (in red) speaks to visitors during the German Federal Government Open Day in Berlin, Germany, on Aug. 18, 2019. Major political institutions of German Federal Government, including German Chancellery, opened to the public on Saturday and Sunday. (Xinhua/Shan Yuqi)  



Visitors ride on police motorcycles during the German Federal Government Open Day in Berlin, Germany, on Aug. 18, 2019. Major political institutions of German Federal Government, including German Chancellery, opened to the public on Saturday and Sunday. (Xinhua/Shan Yuqi)  



A man visits a fighter jet at the German Ministry of Defense during the German Federal Government Open Day in Berlin, Germany, on Aug. 18, 2019. Major political institutions of German Federal Government, including German Chancellery, opened to the public on Saturday and Sunday. (Xinhua/Shan Yuqi)  



Members of German Bundeswehr introduce equipment to visitors during the German Federal Government Open Day in Berlin, Germany, on Aug. 18, 2019. Major political institutions of German Federal Government, including German Chancellery, opened to the public on Saturday and Sunday. (Xinhua/Shan Yuqi)  



A boy tries on military equipment at the German Ministry of Defense during the German Federal Government Open Day in Berlin, Germany, on Aug. 18, 2019. Major political institutions of German Federal Government, including German Chancellery, opened to the public on Saturday and Sunday. (Xinhua/Shan Yuqi)   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Thousands attend PLA HK Garrison’s open day German Embassy in Beijing holds Open Day event  Echt Berlin (Really Berlin): German Embassy in Beijing holds Open Day event on Saturday Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese-American player keen to grow NFL in ChinaVictims rememberedWorking goats