People visit the photo exhibition named "The Face of History" in homage to the Cuban Revolution leader Fidel Castro, in Havana, capital of Cuba, August 9, 2019. (Xinhua/Joaquin Hernandez) An exhibition named "The Face of History" with a selection of 19 photographs on Friday kicked off the celebrations for the Cuban Revolution leader, Fidel Castro, who would have turned 93 on Aug. 13. The author of the digital photos that are printed on paper and in black and white is Alex Castro, son of the Caribbean political leader who died on Nov. 25, 2016. Alex Castro told Xinhua that the intention of the photo expo is to show a more humane, intimate and natural Fidel Castro in the last years of his life, when away from his government duties, how he devoted himself to issues that concern human beings. "With these images, what I want to show is the person who changed the history of Cuba and the world in a good part, because Fidel became a reference and an example of resistance and social progress," said Alex Castro. He added that this expo was conceived to show a man of flesh and blood, with worries and dreams, sleeplessness and yearnings. Gabriela Hernandez, curator of the exhibition, said the photos didn't follow a chronological order or a theme but rather the figure of Fidel Castro as a human being and a revolutionary. "That's why it starts with Fidel in one of his last public speeches at Havana's Revolution Square," said Hernandez, adding "then we can appreciate him at his home meditating, smiling, reading and reflecting from different perspectives, angles and moments." In the coming weeks, different activities will take place throughout the island to commemorate his anniversary.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Mexico expresses concern over massive illegal weapons transfer from US Cyclists celebrate 150th anniversary of first bike race in Czech city Hong Kong people express support for police, calling for end to violence Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash