Heavily armoured fighters perform combat during the annual medieval festival in the city of Bouillon in south Belgium, Aug. 10, 2019. The annual medieval festival started in Bouillon on Saturday, with shows, fights and crafts of medieval style taking tourists back to the Middle Ages. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong)  

A woman in medieval-style clothes prepares food during the annual medieval festival in the city of Bouillon in south Belgium, Aug. 10, 2019. The annual medieval festival started in Bouillon on Saturday, with shows, fights and crafts of medieval style taking tourists back to the Middle Ages. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong)  



Men in medieval-style clothes practice sword fighting during the annual medieval festival in the city of Bouillon in south Belgium, Aug. 10, 2019. The annual medieval festival started in Bouillon on Saturday, with shows, fights and crafts of medieval style taking tourists back to the Middle Ages. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong)  



A girl rides during the annual medieval festival in the city of Bouillon in south Belgium, Aug. 10, 2019. The annual medieval festival started in Bouillon on Saturday, with shows, fights and crafts of medieval style taking tourists back to the Middle Ages. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong)  



A man poses as he puts on medieval-style clothes during the annual medieval festival in the city of Bouillon in south Belgium, Aug. 10, 2019. The annual medieval festival started in Bouillon on Saturday, with shows, fights and crafts of medieval style taking tourists back to the Middle Ages. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong)  



Spectators watch a combat performance during the annual medieval festival in the city of Bouillon in south Belgium, Aug. 10, 2019. The annual medieval festival started in Bouillon on Saturday, with shows, fights and crafts of medieval style taking tourists back to the Middle Ages. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong)  



Heavily armoured fighters perform combat during the annual medieval festival in the city of Bouillon in south Belgium, Aug. 10, 2019. The annual medieval festival started in Bouillon on Saturday, with shows, fights and crafts of medieval style taking tourists back to the Middle Ages. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong)  



Men in medieval-style clothes perform sword fighting during the annual medieval festival in the city of Bouillon in south Belgium, Aug. 10, 2019. The annual medieval festival started in Bouillon on Saturday, with shows, fights and crafts of medieval style taking tourists back to the Middle Ages. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong)  



A girl plays with a ram during the annual medieval festival in the city of Bouillon in south Belgium, Aug. 10, 2019. The annual medieval festival started in Bouillon on Saturday, with shows, fights and crafts of medieval style taking tourists back to the Middle Ages. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong)  



A boy shoots an arrow during the annual medieval festival in the city of Bouillon in south Belgium, Aug. 10, 2019. The annual medieval festival started in Bouillon on Saturday, with shows, fights and crafts of medieval style taking tourists back to the Middle Ages. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong)   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Medieval Festival featuring spirit of Middle Ages held in NYC Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash