Local residents line up for a membership sign-up at the first physical store of Costco in the Chinese mainland in Shanghai, on August 24. Photo: ICUS retailer giant Costco opened its first brick-and-mortar supermarket in China on Tuesday, a move that directly contradicted US President Donald Trump's call for US companies to withdraw from China and laid bare the reality of China's irresistible market for some US companies despite bilateral trade tension.Its pick of timing to enter China seems questionable, as China has passed its golden era when it comes to physical retail, while Beijing and Washington are embroiled in a trade war that showed signs of escalation over the weekend. But considering the unexpected ardent response from local Chinese people, it may be that Costco made the right choice. Costco operates a chain of membership-only warehouse clubs around the world and is known for its relatively cheap prices. Although the store is located in a part of suburban Shanghai that is more than one hour's drive from the city center, and it opened on a weekday, the US supermarket drew thousands of residents who stormed the store. Some even came especially to get a look. One customer told the Global Times that she got up early and traveled for three hours to the supermarket. The person has been a fan of Costco's online store. "But I didn't expect such chaos on the first day," she said. An employee of Costco told the Global Times that as many as 130,000 people had signed up for membership as of Monday night.So many cars showed up that there was a traffic jam, forcing buses to change their routes. Costco employees had to control the crowd of customers at times, and shoppers faced long lines to pay.Zhang Sihan, Costco's Asian president, said that although Costco is not the first overseas membership warehouse retail supermarket to enter China, he believed that Costco's products and services will bring a refreshing experience to Chinese customers, according to a statement Costco sent to the Global Times. Costco may open other stores in Shanghai, but it has not decided on dates or locations, the company said.Like other US-based companies, Costco moved into the Chinese mainland despite bilateral trade tension. Recently, Trump angrily tweeted his decision to adding tariffs to $550 billion of Chinese imports, as well as "an order" that US companies should leave China and head for the US. Retailing expert Yan Qiang said that overseas retailing giants like Costco won't want to miss out on the Chinese market. "Where else can they find such a market, with such a large population as well as the wakening of consumer awareness? Chinese customers are willing to pay for good products. In the US and Europe, markets are too mature and what is happening with the consumption market in China won't happen there anymore," he told the Global Times. He also pointed to the diversity of the Chinese market. Even as e-commerce is on the rise, traditional physical stores still have great potential as older customers in China spend more now.Bai Ming, a research fellow at the Ministry of Commerce's Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation, said that Costco's popularity in Shanghai "shows the reality that US companies cannot resist the massive Chinese market of 1.4 billion people, no matter what US officials say." "This is about interest. As long as there is a big market, they will not turn away," he told the Global Times. Bai said that this shows China's openness toward US companies despite the escalating trade tension. "As long as they come here and offer good products and services, China's door is always open. This is an example."But Yan said the future of Costco in China is hard to predict. "The retailing environment in China is fiercely competitive, and the golden era of retail has passed. I think Costco's future depends on whether it can attract customers over the long term with its sales model and whether it can keep purchasing costs low to maintain price advantages," he said.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Trump tweets can no longer move A shares Using tariffs for political reasons by Trump could be dangerous for whole world Trump's tariffs to cost average US household 580 USD: report Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US How Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrantsFootvolley tournamentChinese-American player keen to grow NFL in China