Mexican director Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu poses with the Honorary Heart of Sarajevo award during the Sarajevo Film Festival in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) on Aug. 16, 2019. The 25th Sarajevo Film Festival (SFF) kicked off Friday in BiH's capital, presenting artists with the Honorary Heart of Sarajevo award, the highest prize at the event. (Photo by Nedim Grabovica/Xinhua)   

Polish-born film director and screenwriter Pawel Pawlikowski speaks after receiving the Honorary Heart of Sarajevo award during the Sarajevo Film Festival in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) on Aug. 16, 2019. The 25th Sarajevo Film Festival (SFF) kicked off Friday in BiH's capital, presenting artists with the Honorary Heart of Sarajevo award, the highest prize at the event. (Photo by Nedim Grabovica/Xinhua)   



Polish-born film director and screenwriter Pawel Pawlikowski (L) and his wife Malgosia Bela pose on the red carpet during the Sarajevo Film Festival in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) on Aug. 16, 2019. The 25th Sarajevo Film Festival (SFF) kicked off Friday in BiH's capital, presenting artists with the Honorary Heart of Sarajevo award, the highest prize at the event. (Photo by Nedim Grabovica/Xinhua)   



Mirsad Purivatra, director of Sarajevo Film Festival, speaks at the opening ceremony of the Sarajevo Film Festival in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) on Aug. 16, 2019. The 25th Sarajevo Film Festival (SFF) kicked off Friday in BiH's capital, presenting artists with the Honorary Heart of Sarajevo award, the highest prize at the event. (Photo by Nedim Grabovica/Xinhua)   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Film director slammed for joining Taiwan filmfest Renowned Chinese director's conceptual show to be staged in Beijing Director Zhang Yimou talks about his upcoming conceptual stage show ‘2047: Apologue’ Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese-American player keen to grow NFL in ChinaVictims rememberedWorking goats