New subway cars are seen in Boston, Massachusetts, the United States, on Aug. 14, 2019. New subway cars built by a Chinese company for Boston residents started their first run in the U.S. city of Boston on Wednesday. The first 6 of 152 cars started running on the Orange Line of Boston's subway system MBTA in the morning. For Boston residents, the new cars will increase the capacity of the line by 30,000 seats daily when all of them are fully in service. (Xinhua/Liu Jie) 

Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker (R), MBTA's general manager Steve Poftak (C) attend the launch ceremony of the new subway cars in Boston, Massachusetts, the United States, on Aug. 14, 2019. New subway cars built by a Chinese company for Boston residents started their first run in the U.S. city of Boston on Wednesday. The first 6 of 152 cars started running on the Orange Line of Boston's subway system MBTA in the morning. For Boston residents, the new cars will increase the capacity of the line by 30,000 seats daily when all of them are fully in service. (Xinhua/Liu Jie) 



MBTA's general manager Steve Poftak (Front) speaks during the launch ceremony of the new subway cars in Boston, Massachusetts, the United States, on Aug. 14, 2019. New subway cars built by a Chinese company for Boston residents started their first run in the U.S. city of Boston on Wednesday. The first 6 of 152 cars started running on the Orange Line of Boston's subway system MBTA in the morning. For Boston residents, the new cars will increase the capacity of the line by 30,000 seats daily when all of them are fully in service. (Xinhua/Liu Jie) 



Passengers are seen in a new subway car in Boston, Massachusetts, the United States, on Aug. 14, 2019. New subway cars built by a Chinese company for Boston residents started their first run in the U.S. city of Boston on Wednesday. The first 6 of 152 cars started running on the Orange Line of Boston's subway system MBTA in the morning. For Boston residents, the new cars will increase the capacity of the line by 30,000 seats daily when all of them are fully in service. (Xinhua/Liu Jie) 



A cameraman films a new subway car in service in Boston, Massachusetts, the United States, on Aug. 14, 2019. New subway cars built by a Chinese company for Boston residents started their first run in the U.S. city of Boston on Wednesday. The first 6 of 152 cars started running on the Orange Line of Boston's subway system MBTA in the morning. For Boston residents, the new cars will increase the capacity of the line by 30,000 seats daily when all of them are fully in service. (Xinhua/Liu Jie) 



New subway cars are seen in a workshop in Boston, Massachusetts, the United States, on Aug. 14, 2019. New subway cars built by a Chinese company for Boston residents started their first run in the U.S. city of Boston on Wednesday. The first 6 of 152 cars started running on the Orange Line of Boston's subway system MBTA in the morning. For Boston residents, the new cars will increase the capacity of the line by 30,000 seats daily when all of them are fully in service. (Xinhua/Liu Jie) 



A passenger speaks during an interview in a new subway car in Boston, Massachusetts, the United States, on Aug. 14, 2019. New subway cars built by a Chinese company for Boston residents started their first run in the U.S. city of Boston on Wednesday. The first 6 of 152 cars started running on the Orange Line of Boston's subway system MBTA in the morning. For Boston residents, the new cars will increase the capacity of the line by 30,000 seats daily when all of them are fully in service. (Xinhua/Liu Jie) 



Photographers and cameramen shoot the new subway cars in service in Boston, Massachusetts, the United States, on Aug. 14, 2019. New subway cars built by a Chinese company for Boston residents started their first run in the U.S. city of Boston on Wednesday. The first 6 of 152 cars started running on the Orange Line of Boston's subway system MBTA in the morning. For Boston residents, the new cars will increase the capacity of the line by 30,000 seats daily when all of them are fully in service. (Xinhua/Liu Jie) 



Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker (L), MBTA's general manager Steve Poftak (R) head to the new subway cars before the launch ceremony in Boston, Massachusetts, the United States, on Aug. 14, 2019. New subway cars built by a Chinese company for Boston residents started their first run in the U.S. city of Boston on Wednesday. The first 6 of 152 cars started running on the Orange Line of Boston's subway system MBTA in the morning. For Boston residents, the new cars will increase the capacity of the line by 30,000 seats daily when all of them are fully in service. (Xinhua/Liu Jie) 



A subway line diagram is seen in a new subway car in Boston, Massachusetts, the United States, on Aug. 14, 2019. New subway cars built by a Chinese company for Boston residents started their first run in the U.S. city of Boston on Wednesday. The first 6 of 152 cars started running on the Orange Line of Boston's subway system MBTA in the morning. For Boston residents, the new cars will increase the capacity of the line by 30,000 seats daily when all of them are fully in service. (Xinhua/Liu Jie)  New subway cars built by a Chinese company for Boston residents started their first run in the US city of Boston on Wednesday. The first 6 of 152 cars started running on the Orange Line of Boston's subway system MBTA in the morning. For Boston residents, the new cars will increase the capacity of the line by 30,000 seats daily when all of them are fully in service. As one of the major subway lines in Boston, the Orange Line goes through a series of famous sites like Harvard Medical School, Northeastern University, Berklee College of Music, Bunker Hill Monument and Chinatown. Delivered by Chinese railway giant China Railroad Rolling Stock Corporation (CRRC), the cars were designed and built at the company's US manufacturing facility located in Springfield, MA. Replacing the old subway cars presently serving Boston lines, the new cars are featured with more spacious interiors, wider doors, more handrails, and LED lighting systems for the comfort of passengers, according to MBTA. "There's a number of great features on these trains, like wider doors, better technology," MBTA's general manager Steve Poftak said at the launch ceremony of the new cars, adding that the cars are going to provide "more reliable and more comfortable commute for our passengers." A foreman who worked at MBTA's Wellington Car House for 13 years told Xinhua that the new cars employ "the newest generation of technology," and they are much easier for maintenance due to advanced electronics. According to MBTA, CRRC will also design and manufacture new cars for Boston Red Line subway. The vehicles for both Orange and Red lines are worth one billion US dollars. As the production of the new cars continues, the CRRC factory said in May that it planned to bring more job opportunities and the factory aimed at hiring about 260 local workers by the end of 2021. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Alternating temperatures on Beijing subway on track for success Beijing subway experimenting with facial recognition for fare payment Beijing new airport subway line starts test run Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims