Ho Iat Seng, the candidate for the fifth-term chief executive of China's Macao Special Administrative Region (SAR), announces his political platform at a meeting held with the members of the SAR's chief executive election committee in Macao, south China, Aug. 10, 2019. (Xinhua/Cheong Kam Ka) Ho Iat Seng, the candidate for the fifth-term chief executive of China's Macao Special Administrative Region (SAR), announced his political platform on Saturday, which focuses on economy and people's livelihood. At a meeting held here with the members of the SAR's chief executive election committee, Ho elaborated his goal and plan for Macao's future development if elected. He said his decision to run for the post was made from his love for the country and deep feeling for Macao, with a strong desire to serve Macao residents. Ho said his motto for the election is "Unity and Effort, Change and Innovation." Unity and effort is where Macao finds its strength, while change and innovation is what Macao needs to keep pace with the changing era, he said. The candidate put forward his plan for future work with five sections, including public governance, diversified economy, people's livelihood, youth development and cultural cooperation. He said Macao would take the development of a world center of tourism and leisure, and the building of a service platform for trade cooperation between China and Portuguese-speaking countries as basis, to promote an appropriate, diversified and rational layout of the industrial structure, and to realize the sustainable long-term development. If elected, Ho said that he will accelerate the public housing program, and address the housing needs of residents with different incomes, especially of the "sandwich class" who are neither eligible to apply for public rental housing nor able to afford private housing, and young people. Ho also said he will improve the comprehensive quality and competitiveness of young people, implement active policies on youth employment and entrepreneurship, and actively encourage young people to participate in the development of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area. After the elaboration of his political platform, he also responded to the questions of some members of the chief executive election committee, concerning housing, education, employment, environment protection and gaming industry. The two-week promotion period of election campaign started from Saturday. Ho's campaign office will organize over 40 public activities during this period. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Mainland, Hong Kong and Macao ink cooperation arrangement on aviation security Macao holds 22nd Int’l Comparative Literature Congress Macao unaffected by HK violence Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash