China's top legislature holds a joint inquiry into a report on the enforcement of the water pollution prevention and control law at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 25, 2019. Li Zhanshu, chairman of the National People's Congress (NPC) Standing Committee, attended the meeting and delivered a speech. (Photo: Xinhua) China's top legislature on Sunday held a joint inquiry into a report on the enforcement of the water pollution prevention and control law. Li Zhanshu, chairman of the National People's Congress (NPC) Standing Committee, attended the meeting and delivered a speech. During the inquiry, legislators asked questions about measures to protect drinking water safety, construct rural sewage treatment facilities, and strengthen supervision over the discharge of pollutants from ships, among others. State Councilor Wang Yong and officials from multiple ministries and government agencies including the Ministry of Ecology and Environment, the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development and National Health Commission answered the questions. During his speech, Li stressed heightening awareness of adopting law-based approach to pollution control and using legal weapons to protect the water. Li also urged efforts to introduce more scientific methods and apply information technology in water pollution control and safeguard the public's right to know, to participate and to supervise in water protection. The report was submitted on Friday to the NPC Standing Committee for review at its ongoing bimonthly session. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Top legislature hears law enforcement, economic reports China's top legislature wraps up bimonthly session Top legislature closes bimonthly session, revised laws adopted Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US How Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrantsFootvolley tournamentChinese-American player keen to grow NFL in China