A group of patriotic Hong Kong residents come to the Five Flag Poles area at the Tsim Sha Tsui Star Ferry Pier to hoist the national flag and the flag of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on Thursday. Photo: Fu Guohao/GTHarbour City, a major shopping mall in Hong Kong that twice failed to effectively protect the national flag, on Thursday responded to its notice which has been perceived as "not welcome to police" by the public, saying the notice is in line with its property management policies.The notice says the mall will try hard to guarantee the safety of customers in the mall. "Police shall not enter unless there is a crime," reads the notice pasted on the front gate of the mall. People in need should contact the Harbour City's staff members, according to the notice. The notice was still in place on Thursday.The mall on Thursday told the Global Times that the notice is in line with its policy in property management. The safeguards can deal with an emergency and there is no need to "bother the police" unless a crime has been committed. "We all hope the social atmosphere will return to harmony as soon as possible and will work together to avoid any conflicts. Thank you for your understanding," the mall responded. Another mall "Times Square Hong Kong" has posted a similar notice, according to photos circulating online. Netizens perceive the notice and response as a "no entry allowed" to police officers. Harbour City has come under fire after it failed to protect the national flag, after rioters twice removed the flag from the Five Flag Poles area at the Tsim Sha Tsui Star Ferry Pier and threw them in the Victoria Harbour. A spokesperson for the mall on Tuesday said it will increase security to protect the flag. The Global Times on Thursday found flags on the Five Flag Poles have been removed, so did the flagpole ropes. A group of patriotic Hong Kong residents came to the pier on Thursday to raise the national flags before opposition forces who claimed to hold a gathering in the evening. After finding out the ropes had been removed, patriotic residents erected the national flag and the flag of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region instead. Harbour City told the Global Times that the mall on Wednesday found flagpoles were damaged so they removed the flags to repair the poles. It is unclear how long the repair will take.   Retail sector in Hong Kong has slipped by 3 percent from January to June. Sales of the Harbour City dropped 1 percent in the first half of this year and 6.7 percent in June alone due to the protests. The statistics for Times Square Hong Kong are down 3.6 and 11 percent, respectively. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  HK riot leaders keep own children safe while mobilizing other youths Central govt official identifies HK turmoil as ‘color revolution’ for first time HK fed up with ‘black terror’ Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash