The New York City police officer who caused the chokehold death of an unarmed black man five years ago should be fired, a police judge recommended in a disciplinary case on Friday. It came weeks after federal prosecutors dropped criminal charges against officer Daniel Pantaleo, saying there's insufficient evidence of him breaking the law or violating the civil rights of Eric Garner, who was selling cigarettes illegally on a sidewalk in the borough of Staten Island on July 17, 2014, before his deadly encounter with the officer. Pantaleo has been suspended shortly after the recommendation. Commissioner of the New York Police Department (NYPD), James O'Neill, will make a final decision on whether to fire Pantaleo by the end of August, local media reported. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio hailed the recommendation as "a step towards justice and accountability." "We saw a process that was actually fair and impartial and I hope that this will now bring the Garner family a sense of closure and the beginning of some peace," he said at a press conference on Friday afternoon. On the other side, police unions have voiced strong opposition toward the possible termination of Pantaleo from NYPD. Patrick Lynch, president of The Police Benevolent Association of the City of New York blasted it as "pure political insanity." "If it is allowed to stand, it will paralyze the NYPD for years to come," Lynch said, adding that the only hope for justice now lies with Commissioner O'Neill. Garner's death once catalyzed a nationwide Black Lives Matter movement denouncing police brutality and racial discrimination at a time when several unarmed African Americans had been killed by police across the country. A widely-circulated video of the incident has shown Garner crying out "I can't breathe" at least 11 times when the officer put him in a chokehold before he eventually lost consciousness. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  US police shoot man dead in fireworks show on eve of Independence Day Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash