Personnel from the Chinese People's Armed Police Force and the National Guard of Kyrgyzstan attend a seminar in Urumqi, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Aug. 6, 2019. The China-Kyrgyzstan "Cooperation-2019" joint counter-terrorism exercise was launched Tuesday at a training base in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. The "Cooperation-2019" exercise is the first joint exercise conducted by similar forces of the two countries. (Xinhua/Liu Fang) 

Personnel from the Chinese People's Armed Police Force attend a seminar in Urumqi, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Aug. 6, 2019. The China-Kyrgyzstan "Cooperation-2019" joint counter-terrorism exercise was launched Tuesday at a training base in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. The "Cooperation-2019" exercise is the first joint exercise conducted by similar forces of the two countries. (Xinhua/Liu Fang) 



Personnel from the National Guard of Kyrgyzstan attend a seminar in Urumqi, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Aug. 6, 2019. The China-Kyrgyzstan "Cooperation-2019" joint counter-terrorism exercise was launched Tuesday at a training base in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. The "Cooperation-2019" exercise is the first joint exercise conducted by similar forces of the two countries. (Xinhua/Liu Fang) 



He Lifeng, commander of "Shanying" commando of the People's Armed Police Force of Xinjiang Corps, receives an interview in Urumqi, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Aug. 6, 2019. The China-Kyrgyzstan "Cooperation-2019" joint counter-terrorism exercise was launched Tuesday at a training base in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. The "Cooperation-2019" exercise is the first joint exercise conducted by similar forces of the two countries. (Xinhua/Liu Fang) 



A soldier (R) from the National Guard of Kyrgyzstan receives an interview in Urumqi, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Aug. 6, 2019. The China-Kyrgyzstan "Cooperation-2019" joint counter-terrorism exercise was launched Tuesday at a training base in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. The "Cooperation-2019" exercise is the first joint exercise conducted by similar forces of the two countries. (Xinhua/Liu Fang) 



Photo taken on Aug. 6, 2019 shows the China-Kyrgyzstan "Cooperation-2019" joint counter-terrorism exercise in Urumqi, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. The China-Kyrgyzstan "Cooperation-2019" joint counter-terrorism exercise was launched Tuesday at a training base in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. The "Cooperation-2019" exercise is the first joint exercise conducted by similar forces of the two countries. (Xinhua/Liu Fang) The China-Kyrgyzstan "Cooperation-2019" joint counter-terrorism exercise was launched Tuesday at a training base in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. Aiming to deepen security cooperation between the two countries and enhance the counter-terrorism capability of the armed forces, the exercise does not target any third party. Some 150 personnel from the Chinese People's Armed Police Force and the National Guard of Kyrgyzstan will engage in counter-terrorism trainings including joint command, basic technical training, cooperative tactical training and integrated countermeasure training. The "Cooperation-2019" exercise is the first joint exercise conducted by similar forces of the two countries. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China, Kyrgyzstan agree BRI key to bilateral ties, regional cooperation China, Kyrgyzstan push ties  China, Kyrgyzstan agree to enhance ties to new heights Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash