A policeman is attacked by protesters inside a mall in Sha Tin District in Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on Sunday. Hong Kong Police Commissioner Stephen Lo Wai-chung strongly condemned the violence, vowing to track down those responsible for the clashes and hold them accountable. Photo: AP US President Donald Trump on Thursday rightly described recent violent protests in Hong Kong as riots, and said China should handle the situation by itself as the city is part of China.But the comments, in direct contradiction to calls for the city authorities to drop riot charges, drew the ire of many anti-government forces in Hong Kong, particularly some foreign journalists who have shown clear biases in their coverage of the situation in support of violence on the Hong Kong streets that has rocked the city for weeks.Asked about the situation in Hong Kong, the US President said, "Something is probably happening in Hong Kong because when you look at it... They've had riots for a long period of time."Trump continued to say that China does not need "advice" in handling the situation. "At some point they are going to want to stop [the riots]. But that's between Hong Kong and that's between China, because Hong Kong is a part of China." Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying praised US President Donald Trump at Friday's press conference. At least two of Trump's sentences are correct this time. One is describing recent violent protests in Hong Kong as "riots" and the other that Hong Kong is part of China, Hua said. But Hua said China solemnly demands that some Western countries, including the US, abide by the basic norms of international law and international relations, abide by their own commitments to not interfere in Hong Kong affairs and stop supporting violence.Trump's use of the word "riots" set off a wave of hysteria among some foreign reporters and commentators who have refused to acknowledge the nature of the violence and even tried to legitimize and glorify it. Trump's suggestion that the US will not interfere with Hong Kong affairs has also disappointed many who have sought the US help in their ill-intentioned political causes."Trump just called the Hong Kong protests for democracy and against Chinese repression 'riots,'" Anna Fifield, Beijing bureau chief for the Washington Post, tweeted on Friday.

Radical protesters in Hong Kong block a road and assault police on Sunday. Their behavior was widely condemned. Photo: Fan Lingzhi/GT Also on Twitter, many, who clearly have not seen the violence or intentionally ignored the scenes, appeared shocked to hear Trump's use of the word "riots." Others seem to claim that they know more than the US President who leads the world's biggest and most powerful spy agency."It sounds like he doesn't know what he's talking about," a Twitter user named DavidGizz commented.Another user posted the definition of the word "riot" - "protest is a formal objection, especially one by a group, while riot is wanton or unrestrained behavior; uproar; tumult." But the user added that "I wouldn't say the the majority demonstrating were wanton or unrestrained."Maybe that is true for users overseas, considering that what they might have seen is biased reporting of what's going on. Many in Hong Kong who have not only seen but also have to deal with the situation would be quick to call the violence "riots." First, the Hong Kong Police have charged 44 people for rioting. Hong Kong police arrested seven men and one woman on Thursday at midnight, including secessionist Andy Chan Ho-tin, leader of the pro-independence "Hong Kong National Party," after the discovery of a batch of offensive supplies for violent protest, such as explosives, steel balls, and bows and arrows. Those articles are believed to have been intended for use in upcoming demonstrations.Many anti-government forces have since demanded the government drop riot charges and stop classifying the protests as riots. In pursuing this demand, they have tried to distort truth by pushing a narrative of police brutality.Maybe that's reason behind the outrage on Friday over Trump's comments, because they are not in favor of their calls.What is also not in their favor is reality. Over the past few days, anti-government forces have gathered illegally on the streets of Hong Kong, surrounded police stations and attacked police officers, pushing flaming shopping carts toward police and throwing objects such as umbrellas and eggs at officers. They have used what the police call "lethal weapons," such as bricks, arrows and sharpened iron rods against officers. An officer's finger was bitten off. They released personal information about police officers and harassed their families including school children. They have crashed into government buildings.It is important to point out that many wear masks to cover up their faces, seemingly understanding what they are doing is illegal.For those with objective eyes, these are far from what some Western media describe as "peaceful protests." Some have even called these terrorist attacks. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Interview with HK police veteran: reports of foreign media on HK are biased Support pours in for Hong Kong police Violence in HK touches bottom line, 'intolerable': PLA commander Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash