A Syrian soldier puts a Syrian flag on the top of a tank in the town of Khan Shaykhun in the southern countryside of Idlib province, Syria, on Aug. 24, 2019. The Syrian army on Friday fully secured the entire northern countryside of the central province of Hama for the first time since 2012, the state media reported. (Photo: Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua) 

A Syrian soldier jumps onto a tank in the town of Khan Shaykhun in the southern countryside of Idlib province, Syria, on Aug. 24, 2019. The Syrian army on Friday fully secured the entire northern countryside of the central province of Hama for the first time since 2012, the state media reported. (Photo: Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua)

Syrian soldiers are seen in the town of Khan Shaykhun in the southern countryside of Idlib province, Syria, on Aug. 24, 2019. The Syrian army on Friday fully secured the entire northern countryside of the central province of Hama for the first time since 2012, the state media reported. (Photo: Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua) 

A Turkish military observation point is seen in the town of Morek in the northern countryside of Hama province, Syria, on Aug. 24, 2019. The Syrian army on Friday fully secured the entire northern countryside of the central province of Hama for the first time since 2012, the state media reported. (Photo: Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua) 

A Syrian soldier is seen in the town of Khan Shaykhun in the southern countryside of Idlib province, Syria, on Aug. 24, 2019. The Syrian army on Friday fully secured the entire northern countryside of the central province of Hama for the first time since 2012, the state media reported. (Photo: Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua) 

A Syrian soldier flashes the victory sign in the town of Khan Shaykhun in the southern countryside of Idlib province, Syria, on Aug. 24, 2019. The Syrian army on Friday fully secured the entire northern countryside of the central province of Hama for the first time since 2012, the state media reported. (Photo: Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua) 

Syrian soldiers are seen in the town of Khan Shaykhun in the southern countryside of Idlib province, Syria, on Aug. 24, 2019. The Syrian army on Friday fully secured the entire northern countryside of the central province of Hama for the first time since 2012, the state media reported. (Photo: Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Syrian army captures remaining rebel areas in Hama countryside Syrian army retakes key town in Hama from rebels Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US How Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrantsFootvolley tournamentChinese-American player keen to grow NFL in China