Illustration: Liu Rui/GTChina is speeding up its preparations for the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. The sporting nation held various ice and snow races and festivals to meet the target of drawing 300 million participants to winter sports by 2022. The Beijing-Zhangjiakou intercity railway, a vital project for the 2022 Winter Olympic Games, is also being built in North China's Hebei Province and will open by December. China is determined to strive for the best since the country met both hope and despair in the 2018 Winter Olympic Games held in Pyeongchang, South Korea. In the 2018 Winter Olympics, South Korea was accused of unfair rulings and China was one of the victims. However, Wu Dajing broke the world record twice in the men's 500m short track speed skating, claiming China's first gold medal in Pyeongchang. But on March 9, Wu choked with emotion during an interview after the 2019 Short Track Speed Skating World Championships in Sofia, Bulgaria. It was not at all because Wu won the silver medal and missed the gold, but the dramatic and unfair penalties that did South Korea a favor once again.When South Korean skater Hwang Dae-heon took the lead in crossing the finish line, Wu pointed his little finger downward, gesturing his disapproval in front of the world. "Can't we make the game fairer and cleaner?" a tearful Wu questioned during the interview. His words once again ignited outrage among Chinese people. China was not the only victim of unfair rulings during the 2018 Winter Olympic Games - a Canadian said on Twitter after the 2018 Winter Olympics: "Why Canada gets a penalty when we were the ones that got cut off?" It seems that such unfair decisions were repeated, which will affect the image of South Korean sports."Short track speed skating is special. The referee is also a part of the competition," said head coach Li Yan before leading the team to Bulgaria. "Every athlete and team should study the referee's criteria and international standards," Li said. However, it is still hard for Chinese people to understand the unpredictable criteria, especially when South Korean athletes are in the same game.We have to admit that South Korean athletes are good at making use of rules to their full effect. But what they do has trampled upon the Olympic spirit and sportsmanship. They excel in finding loopholes, and then sneakily or flagrantly, rule their opponents out to grab the gold medal. Does the end justify the means on such occasions? Or is it worthwhile to win the medal at the cost of the country's reputation? Perhaps not. As an athlete who broke world records twice in a day, Wu is undoubtedly one of the world's greatest skaters. But the Chinese team needs to rethink: Since there were two Chinese skaters and only one South Korean in the final, why did South Korea still win the gold medal? Chinese athletes should further learn to suppress their opponents by using team tactics and rules in a reasonable way. During the just concluded two sessions, Gou Zhongwen, director of China's General Administration of Sport, said that China vows to participate in all the 109 disciplines and win a record number of gold medals. When the time comes, we believe that China will stick to the Olympic spirit and show its style as the host country. Athletes from all over the world will feel being treated justly in a China-hosted Winter Olympics. However, if the problem of rules that control short track speed skating is still not resolved by then, it is likely that South Korean athletes will again get away with what they want and infuriate the Chinese audience.And to "win gold medals for a record high," Chinese athletes still need to improve their technique. Speed should be their final goal, not sneakily cutting off opponents when the result doesn't seem promising. After all, how can anybody drag down Chinese skaters if they are too fast to even catch up with?The author is a reporter with the Global Times. liqingqing@globaltimes.com.cn China will not pick sides in India-Pakistan disputesF-35 fighter jet plan 'not aimed at China'China-US trade deal must be fair, equal Surprising discovery'Super' bloom