A mother attends to her child at a"flagship" baby care room launched on January 15 at the airport in Shenzhen, South China's Guangdong Province. Photo: VCGA mother with a crying baby in her arms rushes through the crowd anxiously. Unable to find a baby care room, she has no choice but to hurry into a public toilet to nurse her. This embarrassing scenario is not uncommon in public places in China, as baby care rooms are lacking. The establishment of baby care rooms in public places and workplaces is intended to respect women and protect their rights, which will incentivize women to have more children, an expert told the Global Times.In the 2019 Chinese government work report, "strengthening maternal and child health services" was one of the measures aimed at guaranteeing basic medical and health services. Deputies of the two sessions from the pharmaceutical industry proposed that online platforms be utilized to make it easier for mothers to breast-feed their children."Baby care rooms provide the private space required to encourage breastfeeding. Developing mobile phone applications that show the locations and conditions of nearby public baby care rooms would be a great convenience," Jin Yihong, former deputy director of the Institute of Sociology at the Jiangsu Provincial Academy of Social Sciences, told the Global Times. Lack of convenienceZhang Yang (pseudonym), a 33-year-old mother of a 10-month-old baby boy, is troubled by the lack of baby care rooms in public places."Public facilities for babies are so inadequate. Taking my baby out on my own is very inconvenient," Zhang told the Global Times. Zhang said that she enjoys spending time with her son in the park getting fresh air and sunshine, but she cannot do it alone without her husband or mother-in-law with her, because when her baby cries loudly, it disturbs the people around her.She also expressed frustration with her mother-in-law insisting that she breastfeed out in the open when there are no baby care rooms nearby."She cares more about the baby than my feelings," said Zhang.Most baby care rooms in China only have baby changing facilities, a wash basin and a nursing chair. Drinking fountains, refrigerators and bottle warmers can sometimes be found in baby rooms with better facilities. However, Zhang said these three necessities are enough for her as long as the facilities are clean."Baby care rooms should not be located only inside female toilets; that shows gender inequality. Fathers also have to take responsibility for caring for babies," Zhang said."There is no breastfeeding room in my company. I have to take up a whole meeting room to use the milking machine, which makes me feel bad for my colleagues. Sometimes there are no meeting rooms available so I have to wait and endure painful breast swelling," Zhang complained, "I would like to have a second baby if it were less difficult to take care of them."The total number of baby care rooms in all cities on the Chinese mainland is 2,643, and only seven cities have more than 100 baby care rooms, according to New First-tier City Research Institute under the China Business Network. If babies up to the age of 3 and their parents are the main users of baby care rooms, a single room has to be shared by 2,207 families on average even in Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and Guangzhou, which have the greatest number of baby care rooms in China.National guidance"Building baby care rooms in public places is based on respect for women's rights and concern for women's needs. It cannot directly encourage an increased birth rate, but showing concern for women in public infrastructure can alleviate pressure to have children to a certain extent," Jin said."Not only public places but also workplaces should have baby care rooms," said Zhang. "Working nursing mothers need a private space to use milk machines every day. This can help create a fertility-friendly environment for women so that they are willing to have children and face the difficulties of childbirth," she added.The country and many local governments have introduced measures to meet the demand for baby care rooms. The National Health and Family Planning Commission of China and 10 other ministries issued the Guidance on Accelerating the Construction of Maternal and Child Facilities on November 15, 2016, which proposed that over 80 percent of public places should be equipped with baby care rooms by the end of 2018, and that all public and working places should be equipped with standardized maternal and child facilities by the end of 2020. So far, its implementation has not been successful."Public awareness on providing maternity and child care facilities needs to change. Birth is a type of production behavior that makes a great contribution to human society. Nursing mothers are not a burden on companies and society," Jin explained. "Local governments and enterprises should give priority to meeting the needs of nursing mothers."Newspaper headline: Make space for mothers China will not pick sides in India-Pakistan disputesF-35 fighter jet plan 'not aimed at China'China-US trade deal must be fair, equal Surprising discovery'Super' bloom