A woker packaging bottles of Moutai in the company's factory in Zunyi, Southwest China's Guizhou Province File photo: VCGCan you imagine a major stock market with a liquor brand showing the strongest growth momentum? In China, it can happen. The rising share price of China's leading liquor maker Kweichow Moutai is a reflection of the consumption transformation in the world's second-largest economy, which is often ignored by Western observers.Shares in the Shanghai-listed company have risen about 500 percent since August 2015, increasing from 160.26 yuan ($23.9) to a closing price on Monday of 810.09 yuan, making it the highest-priced A-share issue and the seventh-largest listed company by capitalization in the Chinese mainland stock market. As of Monday, the distiller had a market capitalization of more than 1 trillion yuan ($149 billion), exceeding that of many US technology companies such as Qualcomm Inc.The surging share price of Moutai reflects a rise in consumer purchasing power in China. The company's net profit was up 25 percent last year. Some statistics have showed that in 2017, its revenue was 19 times higher than 14 years previously, while its net profit had risen 46 times during the same period.After losing popularity at government banquets due to a crackdown on extravagant spending, Moutai shifted its sights to the nation's growing middle class. The buying power of those consumers helped create the company's mystique in China's stock market.With a population of about 1.4 billion and a growing army of middle-class consumers, the Chinese economy has its own characteristics. The nation's consumer market is quite different from those of many Western countries, and Moutai offers a window into this world. For many Western people who have never been to China, it's hard to imagine that a liquor maker can become a first-class enterprise, standing shoulder-to-shoulder with some well-known US high-tech giants, but Chinese people really did it.Amid the ongoing process of restructuring, China's economic picture has become more complex and uneven. Some high-tech companies, such as telecoms giant Huawei, have become world leaders in developing cutting-edge technology. Meanwhile, other companies in traditional sectors have become pillars of the national economy, thanks to the country's consumption transformation. These are achievements that Western media outlets all too often ignore. If foreigners want to understand the Chinese economy, it won't be enough to know the country's high-tech companies like Huawei. They must gain a better understanding of customers in China, where liquor consumption is a centuries-old tradition that even features in classical Chinese poetry. Foreign companies such as US-based coffee giant Starbucks can follow in Moutai's steps to enjoy China's consumption growth, if they can better understand their customers in China. The more developed the Chinese economy is, the more obvious the impact of Chinese traditional culture on its consumption growth.The author is a reporter with the Global Times. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cnNewspaper headline: Chinese drinkers toast mainland stocks China will not pick sides in India-Pakistan disputesF-35 fighter jet plan 'not aimed at China'China-US trade deal must be fair, equal Surprising discovery'Super' bloom