Illustration: Luo Xuan/GTChina's National People's Congress (NPC), the country's top legislature, passed a new foreign investment law on Friday. The new law would replace three existing laws on various types of foreign investment and signal China's latest round of comprehensive and high-level opening-up.In the past 40 years of reform and opening-up, China has made great achievements. During the time, foreign investment is a major driver of economic and social development in China.By the end of 2018, roughly 960,000 foreign-invested companies had been established in China, with an accumulated foreign direct investment surpassing $2.1 trillion. At the same time, however, protectionism and unilateralism continue to spread in the world, and countries like the US started to initiate trade conflicts aimed at developing countries. The current situation has led to a setback for globalization.The new law is an upgrade on the modernization of national governance and a contribution of "Chinese wisdom" to the global cause.   First, the law has once again underscored China's determination to maintain the rule of law. The three laws in place at the beginning of the country's reform and opening-up provided legal protection for foreign investment. Since then, they have grown obsolete as China needs a streamlined and consolidated new law for its opening-up structure. Throughout the past 40 years of reform and opening-up, lawmaking has always been in place to bolster foreign investment. Second, the new law is based on broad public opinion. The new law underwent a thorough review and opinion solicitation process stretching over three years, from the original draft to NPC vote. The draft law has been available on the Ministry of Commerce's website since 2015 and was submitted to the Standing Committee of the NPC for review in December 2018. Prior to Friday's vote, opinions and suggestions were heard. Symposiums and special sessions were held to gather opinions from various ministries, experts, associations and enterprises, as well as chambers of commerce and foreign companies in China.Third, the lawmaking body has revealed China's legislative procedure, collecting the local governance experience and applying it at the national level. Shanghai is among the first batch of China's free trade zones (FTZs) who have been actively exploring innovative models for foreign investment management. The FTZ negative list for foreign investment has been amended several times to become shorter since the Shanghai FTZ first released it in 2013. In 2016, the negative list was promoted nationwide. Many local business experiences contributed to the design of the law while offering new guidance.Last, the new law reveals China's ambition toward finding a path for developing countries to utilize foreign investment necessary to achieve independent growth. Improving the business environment and attracting foreign investment are challenges for all developing countries. In the report Doing Business 2019, issued by the World Bank, China's business environment has shown significant improvement, ranking 46 in 2019 compared with 78 last year. The Chinese government did not shirk addressing problems along the way. Instead, the country continues to correct drawbacks and solidify the positives by adjusting legislative content to attract foreign investment.The new law indicates that China, the largest developing country in the world, will spare no effort and continue to work hard to integrate itself into the globalization process, offering wisdom and strength to the rising of other developing countries around the world.The author is an associate research fellow at the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation under the Ministry of Commerce. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn China will not pick sides in India-Pakistan disputesF-35 fighter jet plan 'not aimed at China'China-US trade deal must be fair, equal Surprising discovery'Super' bloom