A digital screen displays a Huawei logo during a Huawei launch event ahead of the MWC Barcelona in Spain on Feburary 24. Photo: VCGKeep calm and carry on. China's Huawei Technologies has kept winning contracts in Western countries, which is its active response to US-led geopolitical pressure -  offering better-quality products and services to local companies in overseas markets. This effort will show that Washington's groundless accusations are a vain attempt, analysts said. The Western Australia government has decided to sign a $200 million contract with Huawei to build a new digital radio system for Perth's trains, according to recent media reports. Although the Australian central government in August 2018 ordered a ban on Huawei building the country's 5G networks, citing security concerns, the Chinese company has not stopped winning contracts in Australia. The radio system, which is due to be up and running in 2021, will be used by train drivers, as well as customer service, security and train control employees, according to local news site abc.net.au. West Australian Transport Minister Rita Saffioti said the local authority is confident about the security aspects in relation to the system, the report said. Meanwhile, Huawei has secured another rail contract in Germany by helping Deutsche Bahn - a German rail company - go digital, local TV channel Deutsche Welle reported during the weekend. The US has been lobbying countries including the UK, Australia and Germany to urge them to drop Huawei's products, and it has accused the Chinese company of spying for the Chinese government and posing risks to the national security of those countries. Without providing hard evidence, the US-led global crackdown on Huawei has not persuaded some of its major allies. Huawei senior executives have repeatedly said they have maintained a strong track record in security over the past 30 years, and they believe that foreign partners will continue to use the company's products. "The US government may have underestimated that countries across the world, including their governments, companies and people, would make their own judgments," Huawei board member and senior vice president Catherine Chen said in a recent interview. There are a variety of reasons why many countries are ignoring the backlash and rumors of cyber security risks, and the dominant one is that Huawei is simply ahead of the competition when it comes to 5G as well as its competitive pricing, Kevin Curran, professor of cyber security at Ulster University, told the Global Times on Monday. "Huawei's presence in emerging markets, global dominance in handsets and growing enterprise business should see it through this period and the arrival of the Internet of Things may provide another large boost in the near future," he said. Huawei sued the US government for its unfair ban on its products on March 7, saying US Congress has repeatedly failed to produce any evidence to support its restrictions on Huawei products. "The Chinese company has dared to challenge the American authorities, which also shows it has no fear thanks to its technology competitiveness," Xiang Ligang, a Beijing-based industry analyst, told the Global Times. Newspaper headline: Huawei keeps winning contracts China will not pick sides in India-Pakistan disputesF-35 fighter jet plan 'not aimed at China'China-US trade deal must be fair, equal Surprising discovery'Super' bloom