US Attorney General William Barr concluded that after a two-year-long probe Special Counsel Robert Mueller didn't find US President Donald Trump's campaign or associates colluded with Russia in the 2016 elections. The conclusion has sparked a heated debate. Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. The US Department of Justice said the evidence "is not sufficient to establish that the president committed an obstruction-of-justice offense." The findings are too vague to exonerate Trump, who has been vindicated. Trump has been accused of Russiagate since he assumed power, affecting his policy for Russia. Notwithstanding that he has been let off by Mueller, the Democratic Party has used the allegations to attack Trump's position and his re-election plan. But the report came as a relief to Trump who tweeted at the first moment: "No collusion, no obstruction, complete and total exoneration." White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders also quickly posted a statement, saying the findings of the Department of Justice "are a total and complete exoneration." A vindicated Trump also taunted US mainstream media and the Democratic Party. Although the probe result has pushed up Trump's ratings, it can't completely convince Americans of his innocence, because the full report is yet to be made public. According to a Reuters poll on Tuesday, 48 percent of respondents said they believed "Trump or someone from his campaign worked with Russia to influence the 2016 election," only six percentage points down before the report was released. Besides, 53 percent of respondents said "Trump tried to stop investigations into Russian influence." That Mueller's report did not win overwhelming support for Trump shows that Washington is still politically divided.The Democratic Party has been very dismayed, having lost an important chess piece in the political blame game. However, it may not give up easily. The findings show that there is no sufficient evidence to show Trump's collusion with Russia. Without the details made public, Trump cannot be free of suspicion. The Democratic Party can still hype up the issue to raise the heat on the president. Even then, it would be hard for the Democratic Party to launch another probe into the allegations that Trump was hand in glove with Russia. First, restarting the probe will be a cumbersome process. In fact, it reflects that Democrats are short of means to challenge Trump and his Republicans. Second, the US public has lost interest in Russiagate, which is seen as more a product of political rivalry than a means of pursuing justice. At least, the Democratic Party will make efforts to ensure that the controversy does not die down. Undoubtedly, Russiagate is like a political "soap opera" in a polarized US polity. Muller believes Russia interfered in the election by influencing American public opinion through internet research platforms, and gained and disseminated information on some politicians by hacking. Therefore, the Trump administration will find it hard to adjust its policy toward Russia in the short run. Russiagate matters to the trajectory of US domestic politics, especially the 2020 presidential elections. After a setback over Russiagate, the Democrats should stop flogging a dead horse but seek a fresh and powerful means to deal with Trump's Republicans for the 2020 presidential race. The author is secretary-general of the International Security Study Center at China Foreign Affairs University. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn Pakistan oil find may have meaning to entire regionSaudi Arabia's crown prince visits Asia seeking economic cooperation, not political mediationModi playing China card to win election Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar