The reincarnation of living Buddhas, including the Dalai Lama, should abide by the laws and regulations of the state, as well as religious rituals and historical conventions, said the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson, after the 14th Dalai Lama said his incarnation could be found in India and warned that any other successor named by China would not be respected.The reincarnation of living Buddhas is a special inheritance of Tibetan Buddhism. It follows fixed rituals and procedures. The Chinese government respects and protects it. The system of reincarnation has a history of several hundred years and the title of the 14th Dalai Lama itself also follows religious rituals and historical conventions, and was granted by the then China central government, said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Geng Shuang.Geng's comments came after the 14th Dalai Lama's interview with Reuters, who said that once he dies his incarnation could be found in India and warned that any other successor named by China would not be respected.His comments were also slammed by Chinese experts who said that by saying so, the 14th Dalai Lama meant to grab attention as he failed to sabotage the regional stability of the Tibet Autonomous Region, reflecting the Dalai's anxiety and fear of losing his influence in the world.The Dalai Lama's efforts to separate the Tibet from the nation turned out to be a failure as Tibet is experiencing growing stability and development. That is forcing him to try to gain overseas support by lobbying foreign forces that are against China, analysts on Tibet study said.Incarnation is meaningful only after the passing away of the current Dalai Lama, so it is ridiculous to talk about it when the 14th Dalai Lama is still alive. The 14th Dalai Lama kept inventing stories on his successor — a blonde born in the West one moment, a bee the next, said Lian Xiangmin, an expert from the China Tibetology Research Center, during an interview with the Global Times on Tuesday. The reincarnation of the Dalai Lama is not a personal decision. It follows certain religious traditions and must be approved by the central government since the Qing Dynasty (1644-1911), Lian said. A research fellow, who requested anonymity, from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences also told the Global Times that the Dalai Lama's claim of reincarnation is "groundless" and extremely "irresponsible," as the issue is serious and of concern to Tibetan people. The Dalai Lama stands on the opposite side of people in Tibet since his failed rebellion in 1959. Now, he is just the head of an anti-China group and a tool of anti-China forces, Lian said.  He added that Tibetans and other ethnic groups in the region are in good status and support the socialist system.Tibet achieved significant progress in poverty relief in 2018, with 180,000 people lifted out of poverty. The regional GDP is expected to grow by 10 percent this year. The average per-capita disposable income among the region's rural residents will increase by 13 percent, while for urban residents it will rise by at least 10 percent, said Qizhala, chairman of the regional government.As the Tibet Daily commented on March 11, to achieve his political goal, the 14th Dalai Lama, using religion as cover, totally betrays the excellent tradition of loving the country and the religion that previous Dalai Lamas held. He engaged in activities to separate the country, a move that tarnishes the title of Dalai Lama and Tibetan Buddhism. China will not pick sides in India-Pakistan disputesF-35 fighter jet plan 'not aimed at China'China-US trade deal must be fair, equal Surprising discovery'Super' bloom