A British review of Huawei reportedly found "significant" issues in the Chinese company's engineering processes. No technology is 100 percent perfect for the complex economic and political landscape in Europe. There may be some technological problems with Huawei's telecom equipment, but possible technological flaws should not be politicized and used to blame Huawei's 5G as an "evil technology."The European Commission has recently recommended that EU nations share data to handle cybersecurity risks in 5G networks but shunned US calls to ban Chinese telecom giant Huawei across the bloc. However, we cannot be overly optimistic about the economic environment in Europe.The statement issued by the European Commission has been generally welcomed, emphasizing the importance of a fact-based principle when it comes to telecom services suppliers, including those from China. This is necessary to ensure the EU's independence, which cannot be realized if it yields to whatever the US wants in the area of security.The EU's independence is a crucial prerequisite for the bloc's solidarity. However, concerns remain over whether some individual EU nations will bow to US pressure to reject the unified actions recommended by the European Commission and ban Huawei from participating in their 5G networks. The Huawei case is not only an issue relating to cybersecurity risks, but also a tough test for the EU's solidarity.Some US allies in Europe may follow the US strategy to crack down on the Chinese telecom company, while others superficially stated that they will treat Huawei fairly but in reality may impose subtle restrictions on it, citing various reasons. Huawei can help the EU's 5G construction with high efficiency and low costs. Following the US request to ban Huawei is not conducive to the development of the bloc's 5G network and the introduction of unified standards in European countries.Cybersecurity is an important issue, as it will decide the future of the global 5G industry. China supports the EU's effort to ensure its cybersecurity. China's top legislature adopted the Cybersecurity Law in 2016, a move suggesting that the Chinese government respects and attaches great importance to the issue of cybersecurity.Although some US officials allege Huawei equipment poses a security risk, there is no evidence to prove that. We believe Huawei has a clear understanding of how important the cybersecurity issue is, and it will not destroy its future by stealing data. Further cooperation can prove that and build mutual trust among Huawei and European countries.The author is a reporter with the Global Times. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn Pakistan oil find may have meaning to entire regionSaudi Arabia's crown prince visits Asia seeking economic cooperation, not political mediationModi playing China card to win election Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar