Three kindergarten teachers who allegedly were involved in taking photos of young boys’ private parts without the consent of their parents were detained on Wednesday by police in Shenzhen, South China’s Guangdong Province. The local education bureau also dismissed the head of Shenzhen Meilin Kindergarten, surnamed Xiao, and the campus doctor, surnamed Ren, and required the kindergarten to make a public apology.  The move came after news portal thepaper.cn reported that several parents on Friday found that a 39-year-old teacher, surnamed Zhao, took pictures of their children’s private parts. Parents were told by the kindergarten that Zhao did it out of concern for students’ health. Each photo was even marked with minors’ individual information including their name and birth. Some parents reported the photos to police and called for an investigation. Shenzhen Meilin Kindergarten is a full-time and private kindergarten, founded in 1995, attaining teaching qualifications at the provincial level, according to its website. The incident has led to public outrage on Sina Weibo. “A special group sent by the local education department has been stationed in the kindergarten for further investigation, and students, including some of the victims, have returned school,” a teacher, surnamed Yu, from the kindergarten, told the Global Times on Thursday. Yu said that they will invite professional psychologists to help victims, and the school is willing to accept public supervision.Shenzhen police also said that the photos have not been spread online and no medicine was added to students’ food, in response to online rumors about the purpose of the pictures.China’s Ministry of Education (MOE) issued a new code of conduct for teachers from kindergarten to university in November, which stated that any teacher confirmed to have abused, molested or sexually harassed students will be permanently banned from teaching in China. The code was issued after a series of child abuse and sexual harassment cases in schools that shocked Chinese society.A teacher surnamed Liu at the RYB Education New World Kindergarten in Chaoyang district, Beijing was arrested in December 2017, after the procuratorate of the Beijing Chaoyang district pressed charges against Liu, accusing her of using sewing needles to "discipline" children who would not sleep. Pakistan oil find may have meaning to entire regionSaudi Arabia's crown prince visits Asia seeking economic cooperation, not political mediationModi playing China card to win election Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar