Illustrations: Peter C. Espina/GTHow do you spend the money you get as your paycheck every month? Do you go on an online shopping spree or put some funds aside as savings for a rainy day? There will be a thousand different answers to the question. More and more young people in China are choosing to spend and not save. What's worse, several young people end up becoming "generation debtors." When in college, I received a modest amount from my parents to meet monthly expenses. After a few months, I started to feel the pinch as it became hard to make ends meet with that limited amount. Thank God, back then there were no peer-to-peer lending services. I had to figure out a way to solve the problem. Otherwise, I would have probably been one of those youngsters deeply stuck in a debt spiral. It is easy for young people to yield to the temptation of glitzy shopping windows and luxury living, especially after they get financial independence. After 12 years of stressful school education, the temptation to go on a splurge with newfound independence is too alluring. Some like to spend on the latest gizmos in town while others take to fashionable clothes. It is normal for young people to pamper themselves, but they should do it in an affordable way.When I got my first job eight years ago, half of my meager salary was spent on rent. After paying the landlord every month, I spent about two-thirds of my salary and saved the rest. By the end of that year, I had enough savings to buy myself the latest iPhone 4S and my mom an iPad 2. Years ago, most people like me saved for buying something they coveted. But now it is changing. People just need a few touches on a smartphone screen to loan money from peer-to-peer lending services.Excessive buying with borrowed money overwhelms the financial capability of most young people. This could trap them in an unending cycle of debt.Online lenders promote the peer-to-peer lending services as an easy source of money to lead a glamorous life - or make it appear to be so. They lure young people to enjoy today by spending "tomorrow's money," but never warn them of the risk. If people default on loans from an organized lender like Tencent's WeBank, they may be banned from borrowing. However, if people loan from malicious lenders and fail to repay in time, the outcome could be unimaginable.In extreme cases, borrowers who cannot afford to repay after even selling off their parents' house commit suicide. Sadly, China's current laws cannot stop online lenders from advertising their services. The government should regulate such lenders, otherwise it can threaten the country's financial system. As of now, we can help young people learn how to spend reasonably by reining in their impulses. They should be made aware of the risks of excessive consumption, and balance their growing desire to splurge with the harsh reality of life. After all, there's no such thing as a free lunch. The author is a reporter with the Global Times. xuhailin@globaltimes.com.cn Pakistan oil find may have meaning to entire regionSaudi Arabia's crown prince visits Asia seeking economic cooperation, not political mediationModi playing China card to win election Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar