The Indian general election will kick off next month. It will be the final exam for the Modi administration. With the success of Modinomics in Gujarat, Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party created a miracle five years ago. By analyzing both the gains and losses of Modinomics, a better understanding of India can be gained.  Modinomics was the result of 12 years of successful experience in Gujarat centered on making a "new India" by improving production and manufacturing in areas such as labor, capital, resources and technology.Modi launched initiatives like "Make in India" and "Clean India," oversaw the development of the country's defense industrial corridor and issued a banknote recall.Although the cash recall caused disturbance within society and the economy, the country's economic data is shining and India has become an even bigger standout in today's global economic structure.From 2014 to 2018, India's annual GDP growth hit 7.3 percent on average, marking the country's status as a vigorous economic entity. It also surpassed France in 2017 to become the world's sixth largest economy. By slashing red tape and further opening its market, foreign investment began to rise in 2015. India also saw an improvement of the rankings of the nation's business environment and stock market.The numbers show that Modinomics has lifted the Indian economy out of years of stagnation and placed it on the fast track.The reform measures under Modinomics have targeted the malpractice that had been holding the economy back. The Modi administration achieved what the previous governments intended to accomplish but couldn't. Led by the software industry, India has a burgeoning services market, which has accounted for 50 percent of India's GDP in recent years. The phenomenon is a result of the South Asian country's weak infrastructure combined with its educated labor force.In contrast, development in India's manufacturing industry has stagnated in recent years due to backward infrastructure, excessive government intervention, inefficiency in administrative procedures, and tough restrictions on private and foreign enterprises in market entry. The lackluster manufacturing industry has not only hindered India's economic growth and technological improvement but also made it difficult to create enough jobs. Thanks to the "Make in India" initiative and other measures, India's manufacturing industry has accelerated over the last five years. Industry output grew rapidly over the last four years, with a  6.9-percent growth in 2018. "Make in India" is just a start, but it is moving in the right direction. Indian policymakers are still trying to make up for industrial projects neglected by previous governments. However, Modinomics is not enough to cover job shortages, wealth gaps, rural development, weak administrative efficiency, and a huge fiscal deficit. India is not a larger version of Gujarat. The country's federal and multi-party systems, along with regional differences, have made it difficult for Modi to solve bigger social and economic problems.Take employment as an example, 65 percent of the Indian population is under age of 35, which is a development dividend that other countries would envy. Yet it is a double-edged sword as India must create over 10 million to 12 million jobs annually. Rising artificial intelligence (AI) technology could take over IT support and services jobs, which are often outsourced to India by European and American companies. This trend has already forced IT companies to lay off many employees.The need to increase job opportunities is inseparable from rejuvenating the Indian economy and stimulating investment. India's Trade Union Act and Industrial Disputes Act have suppressed company vitality and stopped them from expanding. In the beginning of 2018, the Modi administration has issued reform measures to amend the Trade Union Act, giving private enterprises more decision-making power and privatizing some of the public sector. The move triggered a massive strike nationwide. How to balance efficiency and equity while developing the economy is a global problem, and India's road ahead will not be easy. The author is a research fellow at the National Strategy Institute of Tsinghua University and executive director at the Chinese Association for South Asian Studies. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn EU to shun American assault against HuaweiChina, Italy sign BRI MoU to advance connectivityChina's J-10 fighter jet celebrates its birthday amid Pakistani parade Allahu AkbarSurprising discovery