Huawei Technologies recorded strong annual growth of nearly 20 percent in 2018, in spite of a US-led crackdown on the Chinese company and mounting pressure amid heated debate over security risks in 5G networks. Huawei posted a strong annual revenue growth of 19.5 percent in 2018, to 721.2 billion yuan ($105.2 billion), with its net profit up 25.1 percent, both on a year-on-year basis. It was the first time the company surpassed $100 billion revenue. The company invested 101.5 billion yuan in research and development (R&D) in 2018, up from its R&D input of 89.7 billion yuan in 2017. In spite of growing geopolitical pressure amid the security debate over 5G worldwide, Huawei has delivered more than 30 5G commercial contracts, with more than 40,000 5G stations shipped, Guo Ping, the rotating chairman of Huawei, told a press conference on Friday in its headquarters in Shenzhen, South China's Guangdong Province.A report released by the British government on Thursday suggested that new technical issues have been identified in Huawei's engineering processes, which will lead to new risks in local telecom networks.In the past two years, there was no one single major malicious cyber attack or accident related to Huawei, including the service outage in December 2018 that caused network failure across 11 countries, Guo noted."We're confident about our continuous work with foreign authorities in ensuring network safety," he said.  Cyber security needs global standards, the rotating chairman told the Global Times during the conference."We welcome the EU's recent common approach on 5G by not excluding any company and we'll continue improving our software engineering capabilities to make both process and result trustworthy," Guo said. The European Commission released a common EU stance on Tuesday by urging the tackling of security issues in 5G networks, which did not exclude any companies from the 5G-network assessment, although the US has been lobbying governments in the region to ban Chinese companies like Huawei by citing security risks. "The easiest way to bring down a fortress is to attack it from within. And the easiest way to reinforce it is from outside," Guo said, noting that the company will do everything it can to shake off outside distractions and improve its management. Foreign media outlets only focus on cyber security risks or politicize the issues instead of looking at the larger context, an industry analyst surnamed Huang told the Global Times. "The US pressure has not and will not stop Huawei getting stronger. It's believed that the firm will continue focusing on its major business and investing in innovation," he said. From January to February, Huawei's carrier and business revenues maintained double-digit growth, with a forecast increase of 30 percent year-on-year, Guo said. Huawei's consumer business sector has surpassed its carrier business for the first time in 2018 and became the largest contributor to its overall revenue, with a total 206 million units of smartphones shipped last year. "It is getting closer to its ambition of overtaking Samsung as the largest smartphone vendor by 2020, with a robust and steady growth, it is highly likely that Huawei will achieve this goal by the end of this year," Xiang Ligang, a veteran industry analyst, told the Global Times. Speaking of ongoing allegations over Huawei installing backdoors on its equipment for the purpose of spying for the Chinese government, Guo said that any commercial firm that participates in such behavior to collect intelligence for a government is "on a suicide mission." Pakistan oil find may have meaning to entire regionSaudi Arabia's crown prince visits Asia seeking economic cooperation, not political mediationModi playing China card to win election Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar