Visitors explore The Depths of Experience exhibition at the China World Mall in Beijing. Photo: Courtesy of Mara  

I'm Coming by Ge YaJing Photo: Courtesy of Mara  

Broken Shadow No.13 by Ouyang Sulong Photo: Courtesy of MaraEight young artists have transformed a shopping mall in Beijing into a space to showcase their new media and installation artworks. The Depths of Experience exhibition, hosted by the China World Mall and Forun Art, has offered a chance for visitors to appreciate art from artists including Ge Yajing, Ouyang Sulong, Tian Xiaolei and Zhang Ying. In the preface to the exhibition, curator Chen Yufeng noted that "emerging from varied creative practices, these eight artists employ individual 'perception' as a starting point for the creation of new bodies of work." "Through the language of new media and installation art, the exhibition engages in a comprehensive discussion about the depths of experience related to light and shadow, dreams, environment, memory, distance, body, time and space, and materials," the preface says. At the opening, Chen called the exhibition an in-depth experience that seeks to inspire visitors to think more about the nature of art.  Fang Ming from Forun Art said that exhibitions held in public spaces help narrow the distance between art and the public and act as a bridge for dialogue between the two. The works on display include sculpture Face from Wan Duoyun, Broken Shadow No. 11 and Not Light or Shadow from Ouyang Sulong as well as installation works Relationship and Soft Shooting from Wang Man. The exhibition is set to run until October 30.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  "Qatar Day" event held at Beijing Int’l Horticultural Exhibition Exhibition on Luoyang tri-colored glazed artworks held in C China's Henan People visit Qing Dynasty Imperial Leisure Palace's Immersive exhibition in Paris, France Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US How Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrantsFootvolley tournamentChinese-American player keen to grow NFL in China