Visitors walk past a model of Kremlin's Spasskaya Tower at the "Russia in Miniatures" exhibition in Moscow, Russia, on Sept. 25, 2019. More than 80 models of famous Russian landmarks are on display at the "Russia in Miniatures" exhibition in Moscow, which will run until October this year. (Photo: Maxim Chernavsky/Xinhua) 

A model of St. Basil's Cathedral is seen at the "Russia in Miniatures" exhibition in Moscow, Russia, on Sept. 25, 2019. More than 80 models of famous Russian landmarks are on display at the "Russia in Miniatures" exhibition in Moscow, which will run until October this year. (Photo: Maxim Chernavsky/Xinhua)

A model of the Soldier and Sailor Monument is seen at the "Russia in Miniatures" exhibition in Moscow, Russia, on Sept. 25, 2019. More than 80 models of famous Russian landmarks are on display at the "Russia in Miniatures" exhibition in Moscow, which will run until October this year. (Photo: Maxim Chernavsky/Xinhua) 

Visitors watch a model of Vyborg Castle at the "Russia in Miniatures" exhibition in Moscow, Russia, on Sept. 25, 2019. More than 80 models of famous Russian landmarks are on display at the "Russia in Miniatures" exhibition in Moscow, which will run until October this year. (Photo: Maxim Chernavsky/Xinhua)

A model of St. Isaac's Cathedral is seen at the "Russia in Miniatures" exhibition in Moscow, Russia, on Sept. 25, 2019. More than 80 models of famous Russian landmarks are on display at the "Russia in Miniatures" exhibition in Moscow, which will run until October this year. (Photo: Maxim Chernavsky/Xinhua)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Man makes miniatures of Qingdao's old buildings by shells and wood  Nostalgic man makes building miniatures Miniatures of 10 world cultural heritages on show in Xi'an Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Surviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenshipHorse dancing  College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in US