Dainzin Quzhen (front) holds a traditional rite with family members before moving into her new house in Lhozhag Town of Lhozhag County, Shannan City, southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region, Sept. 21, 2019. A total of 88 villagers from 28 households moved to their new two-story dwellings to improve housing conditions. (Photo: Xinhua)


Villagers move into a new house in Lhozhag Town of Lhozhag County, Shannan City, southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region, Sept. 21, 2019. A total of 88 villagers from 28 households moved to their new two-story dwellings to improve housing conditions. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Aerial photo taken on Sept. 21, 2019 shows the government-funded dwellings in Lhozhag Town of Lhozhag County, Shannan City, southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region. A total of 88 villagers from 28 households moved to their new two-story dwellings to improve housing conditions. (Photo: Xinhua/Jigme Dorje)  

Villager Purbu Zhoima prepares to move into her new house in Lhozhag Town of Lhozhag County, Shannan City, southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region, Sept. 21, 2019. A total of 88 villagers from 28 households moved to their new two-story dwellings to improve housing conditions. (Photo: Xinhua/Jigme Dorje)  

Villager Dainzin Quzhen (front) holds a traditional rite in front of her new house in Lhozhag Town of Lhozhag County, Shannan City, southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region, Sept. 21, 2019. A total of 88 villagers from 28 households moved to their new two-story dwellings to improve housing conditions. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Dainzin Quzhen (1st L) presents a hada scarf to her new house in Lhozhag Town of Lhozhag County, Shannan City, southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region, Sept. 21, 2019. A total of 88 villagers from 28 households moved to their new two-story dwellings to improve housing conditions. (Photo: Xinhua)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Artists perform Tibetan Opera in cultural festival in Shannan, China's Tibet  People wearing hats during horse racing festival in China's Tibet  Average life expectancy in Tibet has increased to 70.6 years: health authorities Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims