Representatives of Bashkortostan Republic perform at their site during the Russian Geographical Society Festival at Zaryadye park in Moscow, Russia, on Sept. 13, 2019. The 4th Russian Geographical Society Festival is held from Sept. 13 to Sept. 22 in Moscow. Visitors will be able to get acquainted with the diverse nature and cultural heritage of Russia during the festival.Photo:Xinhua 

A girl looks at a fossil in the paleontologists tent during the Russian Geographical Society Festival at Zaryadye park in Moscow, Russia, on Sept. 13, 2019. The 4th Russian Geographical Society Festival is held from Sept. 13 to Sept. 22 in Moscow. Visitors will be able to get acquainted with the diverse nature and cultural heritage of Russia during the festival.Photo:Xinhua 



Kuban Cossacks perform at their site during the Russian Geographical Society Festival at Zaryadye park in Moscow, Russia, on Sept. 13, 2019. The 4th Russian Geographical Society Festival is held from Sept. 13 to Sept. 22 in Moscow. Visitors will be able to get acquainted with the diverse nature and cultural heritage of Russia during the festival.Photo:Xinhua 



Dancers representing Chechen Republic perform onstage during the Russian Geographical Society Festival at Zaryadye park in Moscow, Russia, on Sept. 13, 2019. The 4th Russian Geographical Society Festival is held from Sept. 13 to Sept. 22 in Moscow. Visitors will be able to get acquainted with the diverse nature and cultural heritage of Russia during the festival.Photo:Xinhua 



Representatives of Cossacks showcase crafts at their site during the Russian Geographical Society Festival at Zaryadye park in Moscow, Russia, on Sept. 13, 2019. The 4th Russian Geographical Society Festival is held from Sept. 13 to Sept. 22 in Moscow. Visitors will be able to get acquainted with the diverse nature and cultural heritage of Russia during the festival. Photo:Xinhua 



Representatives of Cossacks showcase crafts at their site during the Russian Geographical Society Festival at Zaryadye park in Moscow, Russia, on Sept. 13, 2019. The 4th Russian Geographical Society Festival is held from Sept. 13 to Sept. 22 in Moscow. Visitors will be able to get acquainted with the diverse nature and cultural heritage of Russia during the festival. Photo:Xinhua 



People participate in a masterclass at the site of Bashkortostan Republic during the Russian Geographical Society Festival at Zaryadye park in Moscow, Russia, on Sept. 13, 2019. The 4th Russian Geographical Society Festival is held from Sept. 13 to Sept. 22 in Moscow. Visitors will be able to get acquainted with the diverse nature and cultural heritage of Russia during the festival. Photo:Xinhua  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  2019 Long Beach Original Lobster Festival held in LA, US Australia's largest kite festival breezes onto iconic Bondi Beach 2019 Open the Gate of Art festival comes to close in Beijing Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in USSaying no to violenceHow Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrants