Tourists visit Shangxiahang traditional block in Fuzhou, southeast China's Fujian Province, Sept. 15, 2019. Fujian Province received over 5 million visitors during the three-day Mid-Autumn Festival holiday. (Photo: Xinhua)A total of 105 million Chinese tourists traveled around the country during this year's three-day Mid-Autumn Festival holiday which started Friday, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism said Sunday.The figure represented a 7.6-percent increase compared with the holiday last year, the ministry said.Domestic tourism revenue generated during the period totaled 47.28 billion yuan (around 6.7 billion US dollars), up 8.7 percent year on year, according to ministry figures.Many events that promote family values, patriotism and traditional Chinese culture were held across China during the holiday, the ministry noted.Among them was the Shanghai Tourism Festival opening ceremony on Saturday evening, which featured 32 performance groups from 19 countries and regions and attracted some 300,000 spectators.Night-time sightseeing is the highlight of the Mid-Autumn Festival, with Xi'an, Chongqing, Xiamen and Chengdu ranking among the most popular places for sightseeing at night, according to the ministry.Light shows were staged at ancient towns including Zhouzhuang in east China's Jiangsu Province and Wuzhen in the neighboring Zhejiang Province to showcase the towns' classic elegance at night during the holiday, the ministry noted.The Mid-Autumn Festival is typically marked by family reunions, enjoying sights of the full moon and eating mooncakes, among other traditions. 

Tourists pose for photos at Shangxiahang traditional block in Fuzhou, southeast China's Fujian Province, Sept. 15, 2019. Fujian Province received over 5 million visitors during the three-day Mid-Autumn Festival holiday. (Photo: Xinhua)

Tourists visit Shangxiahang traditional block in Fuzhou, southeast China's Fujian Province, Sept. 15, 2019. Fujian Province received over 5 million visitors during the three-day Mid-Autumn Festival holiday. (Photo: Xinhua)

Tourists guess lantern riddles at Shangxiahang traditional block in Fuzhou, southeast China's Fujian Province, Sept. 15, 2019. Fujian Province received over 5 million visitors during the three-day Mid-Autumn Festival holiday. (Photo: Xinhua)

Tourists guess lantern riddles at Shangxiahang traditional block in Fuzhou, southeast China's Fujian Province, Sept. 15, 2019. Fujian Province received over 5 million visitors during the three-day Mid-Autumn Festival holiday. (Photo: Xinhua)   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Tourism revenue during Mid-Autumn Festival shows 8.7 percent gain in China Mid-Autumn Festival Celebration in China 1.93 mln daily entry, exit trips expected for Mid-Autumn Festival holiday Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in USSaying no to violenceHow Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrants