Farmers pick grapes in Langgar Township of Hotan, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Sept. 3, 2019. Many local villagers in Xinjiang have lifted themselves out of poverty through plantation and livestock breeding. In the past five years, about 1.89 million people in Kashgar, Hotan, Aksu and Kizilsu Kirgiz shaked off poverty, reducing the poverty headcount ratio from 29.1 to 10.9 percent in the four prefectures in southern Xinjiang. (Xinhua/Ding Lei) 

A villager checks flowers at home in Kashgar, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Aug. 18, 2019. Many local villagers in Xinjiang have lifted themselves out of poverty through plantation and livestock breeding. In the past five years, about 1.89 million people in Kashgar, Hotan, Aksu and Kizilsu Kirgiz shaked off poverty, reducing the poverty headcount ratio from 29.1 to 10.9 percent in the four prefectures in southern Xinjiang. (Xinhua/Wang Fei) 



A woman feeds a cow in Kashgar, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Aug. 13, 2019. Many local villagers in Xinjiang have lifted themselves out of poverty through plantation and livestock breeding. In the past five years, about 1.89 million people in Kashgar, Hotan, Aksu and Kizilsu Kirgiz shaked off poverty, reducing the poverty headcount ratio from 29.1 to 10.9 percent in the four prefectures in southern Xinjiang. (Xinhua/Ding Lei) 



A woman and her daughter work at a dovecote in Kashgar, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Aug. 14, 2019. Many local villagers in Xinjiang have lifted themselves out of poverty through plantation and livestock breeding. In the past five years, about 1.89 million people in Kashgar, Hotan, Aksu and Kizilsu Kirgiz shaked off poverty, reducing the poverty headcount ratio from 29.1 to 10.9 percent in the four prefectures in southern Xinjiang. (Xinhua/Wang Fei) 



A farmer picks roses in Aral Township of Hotan, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Sept. 2, 2019. Many local villagers in Xinjiang have lifted themselves out of poverty through plantation and livestock breeding. In the past five years, about 1.89 million people in Kashgar, Hotan, Aksu and Kizilsu Kirgiz shaked off poverty, reducing the poverty headcount ratio from 29.1 to 10.9 percent in the four prefectures in southern Xinjiang. (Xinhua/Ding Lei) 



A woman and her son check the condition of a pigeon in Kashgar, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Aug. 14, 2019. Many local villagers in Xinjiang have lifted themselves out of poverty through plantation and livestock breeding. In the past five years, about 1.89 million people in Kashgar, Hotan, Aksu and Kizilsu Kirgiz shaked off poverty, reducing the poverty headcount ratio from 29.1 to 10.9 percent in the four prefectures in southern Xinjiang. (Xinhua/Wang Fei)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Residents attend feast in Tacheng, northwest China's Xinjiang Xinjiang cultural exchange group meets religious figures in France  beautiful scenery in northwest China's Xinjiang Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in USSaying no to violenceHow Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrants