British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will hold talks with President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, on Monday to discuss how Britain leaves the European Union, Downing Street announced on Friday. "The prime minister will be travelling to Luxembourg at lunchtime on Monday to hold talks with President Juncker on Brexit," a Downing Street spokeswoman said. It will be the first meeting between the prime minister and Juncker, the outgoing European Commission chief, since Johnson took office in July. No breakthrough is expected from the upcoming meeting."And afterwards, the prime minister will meet with Prime Minister (Xavier) Bettel of Luxembourg," she said. The Luxembourg trip is Johnson's latest efforts to meet with key European leaders, including the ones from Germany, France and outgoing European Council President Donald Tusk. The meeting is part of of a continuing effort by the British government to seek a Brexit deal before the Halloween deadline, the spokeswoman said. "We are working hard to get a deal and having discussions about a deal, but there is a long way to go." Johnson repeatedly said that he will take his country out of the European Union on Oct. 31 with or without a deal, and he will not ask Brussels for "another pointless delay" of Brexit. Brexit has been delayed twice already because of British lawmakers' refusal to ratify the agreement, reached by the European Union and Theresa May when she was the prime minister. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  British PM vows to pursue Brexit deal after new blow  British PM loses final bid for early election British PM set to defy law rather than seek Brexit delay British PM says to call general election after defeat in parliament Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in USSaying no to violenceHow Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrants