Police ride motorcycle in a drill held in Shenzhen, South China's Guangdong Province on Tuesday,with helicopters hovering over head. The drill aims to prepare for the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. Photo: Courtesy of Shenzhen police China enhanced security measures nationwide as a top public security official called for full implementation of counter-terrorism measures to create a secure and stable political and social environment for the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China.State Councilor and Minister of Public Security Zhao Kezhi on Monday demanded use of the most stringent requirements and meticulous measures to prevent violent and terrorist-related incidents and ensure social stability. He made the statement at a national anti-terrorism conference in Beijing.Zhao, also chief of a national anti-terrorism leading group, said that counter-terrorism prevention and emergency preparedness measures should be put in place. Zhao stressed the importance of intelligence collection and research, calling for strengthened early warnings and precise strikes against terrorist activities, requiring management rules and implementation of delivery, real-name ticket purchases and security checks. Employees in service and delivery industries in Beijing reached by the Global Times on Tuesday confirmed that they were also required by authorities to enhance identification registration and checks before the anniversary.An employee of the Shanghai-based Sto Express Beijing branch, who only gave his surname as Li, told the Global Times that many goods are banned from being delivered into Beijing now due to enhanced security checks before the 70th anniversary. Banned goods include small aircraft and aircraft parts, "remote-controlled landmine toys and bomb-alarm clock toys," according to a statement published by China's State Post Bureau on August 13. Another express employee of Guangdong-based SF Express told the Global Times that they would keep back the parcels and contact the sender if they found forbidden objects.Authorities of Southwest China's Yunnan Province are reportedly strengthening management on delivery before the anniversary and ruling out potential safety risks. Those in North China's Henan Province have also reportedly launched a thorough investigation into factories to ensure good air for the big day. Zhao said at the conference that nationwide anti-terrorism work has achieved progress this year to safeguard the 70th anniversary and consolidate the country's fight against terrorism.  He noted that China's overall anti-terrorism work and the situation in Xinjiang were stable, but challenges and complexity remained, calling on authorities to focus on problems and strictly implement detailed anti-terrorism measures. A resident of Northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, who only gave her surname as Tu, told the Global Times Tuesday that the situation in Xinjiang was "very safe" and she trusted the region's security system.Zhao's statements were echoed by enhanced security measures nationwide, especially in Beijing, where a grand military parade will be held on October 1. Beijing police announced on China's Twitter-like Sina Weibo on Sunday that the airspace of seven main districts in Beijing were under strict controls from September 15 to October 1. Pet birds or goods are banned from being released in the air during this period.  Beijing authorities also arranged volunteers to patrol communities and vital places including subway and bus stations, according to a civil servant  surnamed Wang.  They launched a thorough check on production safety in the capital to prevent accidents, Wang said, noting that activities have also been rolled out to promote safety awareness, clear clutter from corridors and manage electric bikes.Provinces and regions across the country have also launched training and measures to beef up security for the anniversary, reports said. To prepare for the 70th anniversary, police nationwide intensified training and held mass drills. For example, police departments in Wuhan, capital of Central China's Hubei Province, have already held 1,200 training courses and 45 projects aimed  at improving police officers' combat capacity. These courses also covered police etiquette and English, media reported.   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  HKers commemorate 70th anniversary of the founding of PRC Tibet University holds event to celebrate 70th anniversary of PRC founding in Lhasa Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in USSaying no to violenceHow Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrants