Chen Nan expounds on his designed oracle bone script via a computer at his studio in Tsinghua University in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 24, 2019. Boasting a history of more than 3,000 years, oracle bone script, the earliest Chinese writing inscriptions carved on tortoise shells and animal scapulas, has been given modern meanings with a new series of emojis, thanks to the efforts made by Chen Nan. Chen, a professor at the Academy of Arts and Design of Tsinghua University, has devoted himself to studying and designing oracle bone script since 1999. So far, Chen has issued six sets of animated emojis, which are pictographs that adopt the syntax of oracle bone script to convey modern words and internet slangs. His works of Chinese characters' design have also been published and exhibited overseas. For Chen, oracle bone script should go global fused with present and strong vitality of Chinese fine culture, as a way to promote Chinese traditional culture well within reach worldwide. (Xinhua/Li An) 

Chen Nan draws a design manuscript at his studio in Tsinghua University in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 24, 2019. Boasting a history of more than 3,000 years, oracle bone script, the earliest Chinese writing inscriptions carved on tortoise shells and animal scapulas, has been given modern meanings with a new series of emojis, thanks to the efforts made by Chen Nan. (Xinhua/Li An) 



Chen Nan (R) and his team members discuss a design scheme of oracle bone script at his studio in Tsinghua University in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 24, 2019.(Xinhua/Li An) 



Chen Nan displays animated emojis to oracle bone script via a phone at his studio in Tsinghua University in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 24, 2019. (Xinhua/Li An)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  African reporters amazed by culture of Chinese ethnic group 16th China-ASEAN Expo Agriculture Exhibition kicks off in Nanning Countryside culture? Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Surviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenshipHorse dancing  College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in US