A visitor takes a look at an artwork which is built by recycled materials during the "Revision: the art of recycling" art exhibition at Burnaby Deer Lake Gallery in Burnaby, Canada, Sept. 21, 2019. Artists showcased their creativity by recycling waste materials and discarded objects into art to raise awareness of environment protection. (Photo: Xinhua) 

A table lamp which is built by recycled materials is displayed during the "Revision: the art of recycling" art exhibition at Burnaby Deer Lake Gallery in Burnaby, Canada, Sept. 21, 2019. Artists showcased their creativity by recycling waste materials and discarded objects into art to raise awareness of environment protection. (Photo: Xinhua) 



A visitor takes a look at an artwork made with plastic bags during the "Revision: the art of recycling" art exhibition at Burnaby Deer Lake Gallery in Burnaby, Canada, Sept. 21, 2019. Artists showcased their creativity by recycling waste materials and discarded objects into art to raise awareness of environment protection. (Photo: Xinhua) 



A visitor takes a look at an artwork which is built by used syringes during the "Revision: the art of recycling" art exhibition at Burnaby Deer Lake Gallery in Burnaby, Canada, Sept. 21, 2019. Artists showcased their creativity by recycling waste materials and discarded objects into art to raise awareness of environment protection. (Photo: Xinhua) 



A visitor takes a look at an artwork which is built by recycled materials during the "Revision: the art of recycling" art exhibition at Burnaby Deer Lake Gallery in Burnaby, Canada, Sept. 21, 2019. Artists showcased their creativity by recycling waste materials and discarded objects into art to raise awareness of environment protection. (Photo: Xinhua)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  People visit 14th edition of Curitiba Int'l Biennial of Contemporary Art Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Surviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenshipHorse dancing  College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in US