Photo taken on Aug. 27, 2019 shows the scenery of the Victoria Harbour in Hong Kong, south China. Hong Kong's favorable international image and business environment has been tarnished as violent and disruptive protests have been going on for more than two months. The disturbance's direct and negative effects on the economy are visible in the retail, catering and tourism industries, which have to resort to layoffs amid the sharp declines in sales, customer numbers and revenue. In the June-July period, average earnings for tourism workers plunged by 74 percent, while the number of tours in Hong Kong fell 74 percent on average, according to a survey by the Hong Kong Tour Guides General Union. (Photo: Xinhua)Exhibitors and firms in China have been upgrading security measures in recent days to prevent any Hong Kong anti-government rioters from slipping in and disrupting social orders. Some organizers also urge participants not to wear black T-shirts and black face masks - a common suit for rioters in Hong Kong - to address security concerns."We have notified all exhibition firms that their participants must bring personal ID with them to the exhibition and not to wear black T-shirt as work clothes and no to wear black face masks," an employee of China International Beauty Expo (CIBE), told the Global Times on Tuesday. The exhibition, which attracts dozens of Hong Kong cosmetics firms every year, will be held in Guangzhou, capital of South China's Guangdong Province, from September 5 to September 7. The employee explained that the measure is aimed at maintaining the order of the exhibition, as rioters in adjacent Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, with the outlook of wearing black T-shirt and black masks, have swept across the city and seriously destroyed public order. "We welcome exhibitors to take part in the event, including those from Hong Kong," she noted.  Under a notice the committee of CIBE sent to all exhibitors on August 26, participating firms are required to verify the political stance of their attendees and those whose political stances are "problematic" are banned from taking part in the exhibition. Organizers have also launched facial recognition access control system to ensure that the person entered the venue is the one who has submitted personal ID and information to the committee for registration, the notice reads.  Some exhibitors the Global Times talked with have voiced full support to the policy."This is a reasonable market spontaneous behavior that shows Chinese and domestic firms have zero tolerance on secessionists. Any companies that want to do business in China should respect Chinese people's feelings and never ever employ anti-government staff," a manager of a cosmetic firm in Guangzhou surnamed Chen told the Global Times.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Children draw paintings to express support for Hong Kong police China launches radio service for Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area Commissioner's office of Chinese foreign ministry rejects US congressmen's remarks on Hong Kong Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US How Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrantsFootvolley tournamentChinese-American player keen to grow NFL in China