US President Donald Trump and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi attend "Howdy, Modi!" at NRG Stadium in Houston, Texas, September 22, 2019.Photo:VCGUS President Donald Trump on Sunday shared a stage with visiting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi here to address a large group of Indian-American community, as the situation remains intense over India-controlled Kashmir. Trump hailed the US-Indian ties while addressing the "Howdy, Modi!" rally in the NRG Stadium, which attracted approximately 50,000 people, mostly Indian Americans, to attend in a gesture of welcoming the Indian prime minister. Trump also revealed that the United States is working closely with India to enhance space cooperation. Outside the stadium, thousands of people were protesting against Modi over the alleged human rights violations in India-controlled Kashmir and other places targeting India's minorities, US media reported. 

People cheer and hold the flag of India as US President Donald Trump and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi attend "Howdy, Modi!" at NRG Stadium in Houston, Texas, September 22, 2019. Photo:VCGTensions remain high between India and Pakistan after the abrogation of Article 370 of the Indian constitution by India over India-controlled Kashmir in August. Pakistan downgraded diplomatic ties, suspended trade relations and stopped train services with India as a reaction to India's decision. On Saturday, troops of India and Pakistan reportedly resorted to heavy fire and mortar shelling on the Line of Control, the de-facto border between the two countries in the disputed area. Modi is on a week-long trip to the United States, during which he will address the annual United Nations General Assembly and host a special event to commemorate the 150th birth anniversary of India's Father of Nation Mahatma Gandhi. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Unlike Australia, India treads softly on ties with US Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Surviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenshipHorse dancing  College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in US