Young artists receive certificates from the No-Boundaries Committee. Photo: Courtesy of No-Boundaries Committee

The exhibitino hall of 2019 No-Boundaries International Art Exhibition Photo: Courtesy of No-Boundaries Committee

Yan Baitong gives speech on the opening ceremony of 2019 No-Boundaries International Art Exhibition at Today Art Museum in Beijing on Friday. Photo: Courtesy of No-Boundaries Committee
The No-Boundaries Committee, in partnership with the Columbia Global Centers and the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia University, launched the fourth annual No-Boundaries International Art Exhibitions at the Today Art Museum in Beijing on Saturday. 

The annual exhibition invites kindergarten-to-high-school-age children from all over the world to submit artworks that will be publicly exhibited at international traveling exhibitions over the rest of the year.
The theme of the exhibition this year is A Drop of Water, which encourages these young artists to explore the relationship between human beings and water. The selected artworks were displayed in New York on August 12-16, with Beijing being the exhibition's second stop. 
The next host cities on the global tour are Paris, Nairobi and Rio de Janeiro.
Until August 15, more than 700 paintings are on display at the museum. Among them, 500 are digital paintings. 
Yan Baitong, founder of the No-Boundaries Committee, said at the opening ceremony that she hopes children can be responsible citizens when it comes to water conservation. 
"They may use their imagination and leadership and influence the world when they grow up," said Yan. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Children practice ballet dance at Myanmar Ballet School in Yangon Children draw paintings to express support for Hong Kong police Children are the future Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in USSaying no to violenceHow Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrants