当前浏览器不能支持视频播放，可下载最新的QQ浏览器或者安装FLASH即可播放



            (function(){
               var option ={"auto_play":"0","file_id":"5285890793927109421","app_id":"1253985869","width":1920,"height":1080,"https":1};
               /*调用播放器进行播放*/
               new qcVideo.Player(
                       /*代码中的id_video_container将会作为播放器放置的容器使用,可自行替换*/
                       "id_video_container_5285890793927109421",
                       option
                   );
             })()
 


Hundreds of patriotic Hong Kong people gather at IFC in Central, Hong Kong on Thursday to sing the Chinese national anthem. photo: Cui Tianye/GTHundreds of Hong Kong residents gathered at IFC shopping mall in Central on Thursday noon to sing the Chinese national anthem to support a man who had been beaten by anti-government protesters Wednesday night. They organized and participated in a flash mob to sing the Chinese national anthem at 1 pm. "We love China, We Love Hong Kong!" one of the organizers said, noting that the activity aims to show HongKongers love peace, and to reject violence.They also waved Chinese flags and cheered, "Add oil HK, Add oil China!" They also sang "Ode to the Motherland" and shouted, "Support Hong Kong police!"This flash mob was initiated by Hong Kong residents, as some of them were outraged on Wednesday night after a man with three children being attacked by anti-government protesters at Amoy Plaza. Protesters have been chanting slogans and singing the so-called protest anthem "Glory of Hong Kong" at various shopping malls in recent days. When a man, who is also believed to be a local teacher, encountered some of them at Amoy Plaza on Wednesday night, he argued with them and sang the Chinese national anthem. Protesters then allegedly beat him up, stole his smartphone, and scared his children. 

Hundreds of patriotic Hong Kong people gather at IFC in Central, Hong Kong on Thursday to sing the Chinese national anthem. photo: Li Qiaoyi/GTOnline netizens in Hong Kong were outraged and spontaneously organized the flash mob. "This act (beating a man who sang national anthem) was inhuman," said a netizen on Chinese Twitter-like Weibo on Wednesday. "This father is a hero," another netizen said. A local resident surnamed Zheng told the Global Times she and her husband decided to join the activity as soon as she saw it in an online chat group. "I don't worry about those anti-government protesters who might take my photo and track me down online as I support patriotism," she said. As his husband works in the IT industry, Zheng said she worries about the current social turbulence in Hong Kong. "We may consider moving to the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area if the tariffs in the region are lowered," she said. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  HK messaging platforms urged to stop doxxing, hate speech HK, London markets eye merger HK can persevere with central govt support: official Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in USSaying no to violenceHow Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrants