Illustration: Luo Xuan/GTWith just over a month until the Brexit deadline, the UK has been dragged into chaos. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson may not be able to fulfill his promise to leave the EU as scheduled, and his fate will be in the hands of the Labour Party and the EU. However, Labour sank into internal disorder and was unable to take on major responsibility.Struggling with the international situation and incessant domestic politics, the UK is unwilling to be downgraded. Instead, it is rearranging its diplomacy under the banner of building a so-called Global Britain in order to reduce the short-term risks brought about by Brexit, and to create a favorable international environment after departing from the EU.China will remain an important partner for UK in all cases. Since the leaders of the two countries entered the "golden age" of China-UK relations, the "global comprehensive strategic partnership" which they were trying to build has withstood changes for Brexit and the international situation. The UK values China's important role in upholding multilateralism and improving global governance, and seeks cooperation with China to maintain the multilateral trading system and promote cooperation on climate change. The UK attaches even more importance to the solid foundation and great potential of economic and trade cooperation with China, and shows an active attitude toward finance, investment, trade and involvement in the Belt and Road Initiative.In order to reduce the negative impact of Brexit, the UK has placed China in a priority position while exploring diplomatic alternatives to free trade agreements (FTA). However, the UK has also adopted some risky, utilitarian political and security policies while promoting economic and trade cooperation with China. This kind of practice, which takes economic profit and political advantages, obviously does not conform to the common interests of China and the UK, and is not sustainable.Brexit and China-US trade frictions have added complexity for the UK in setting polices regarding China. Maintaining special ties with the US is one of the foundations of the UK's foreign policy. The US is also the country's largest trading and investment partner. During these uncertain times, the UK needs to maintain its "core Western country" status, but is also eager for the US to commit to the negotiation of an FTA. With increasing reliance on US diplomacy and the US economy, the UK has involuntarily placed itself in the position of having to choose sides between China and the US on certain issues.China is a responsible and vital partner of the UK and the EU, as well as the UK's fifth-largest and the EU's second-largest trading partner. It would certainly not be in its interest to see the UK's economy sink, and it would not want the UK to share a thorny future with Europe. Most importantly, China does not want the UK to take sides between it and the US. China has always supported the cooperation between the UK and the EU. It has adopted a positive attitude toward future China-UK FTA negotiations under the premise of respecting EU rules. There should not be a breakdown in UK-EU relations. Willingness to compromise in Brexit negotiations can reduce uncertainties and boost confidence in the UK and EU economies. Constructive UK-EU relations can promote international and regional stability, and can facilitate China-UK cooperation. Therefore, the three parties can jointly safeguard multilateral international order.The UK believes that its diplomacy is both principled and flexible. However, when China-US relations have influenced the stability of the international situation rather than purely national interests, the UK should cease its short-sighted and utilitarian conduct. Instead, the country needs to act based on its principles and work together with China and other partners to contribute to multilateral rules and order. Only by doing so can it expect a favorable international environment after Brexit. The author is director of the Department of European Studies, China Institute of International Studies. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Britain's Labour leader wins crucial "wait and see" strategy on Brexit Split by Brexit, Labour kicks off annual conference with showdown UK PM Johnson awaits judgement on parliament prorogation as EU's Juncker says Brexit deal possible Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Surviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenshipHorse dancing  College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in US