A girl tries to stand on a horse's back during the "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair at Westham Island Herb Farm in Delta, Canada, on Sept. 7, 2019. The annual "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair kicked off on Saturday, featuring different agricultural interactive activities to educate communities about the nature and importance of agriculture and non-market environmental services. (Photo: Liang Sen/Xinhua) 

People tour around during the "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair at Westham Island Herb Farm in Delta, Canada, on Sept. 7, 2019. The annual "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair kicked off on Saturday, featuring different agricultural interactive activities to educate communities about the nature and importance of agriculture and non-market environmental services. (Photo: Liang Sen/Xinhua) 

A woman demonstrates traditional wool thread making with a vintage spinning wheel during the "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair at Westham Island Herb Farm in Delta, Canada, on Sept. 7, 2019. The annual "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair kicked off on Saturday, featuring different agricultural interactive activities to educate communities about the nature and importance of agriculture and non-market environmental services. (Photo: Liang Sen/Xinhua) 

A girl tries to feel the fur of a cow during the "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair at Westham Island Herb Farm in Delta, Canada, on Sept. 7, 2019. The annual "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair kicked off on Saturday, featuring different agricultural interactive activities to educate communities about the nature and importance of agriculture and non-market environmental services. (Photo: Liang Sen/Xinhua) 

People play with hay during the "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair at Westham Island Herb Farm in Delta, Canada, on Sept. 7, 2019. The annual "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair kicked off on Saturday, featuring different agricultural interactive activities to educate communities about the nature and importance of agriculture and non-market environmental services. (Photo: Liang Sen/Xinhua) 

People visit a sheepfold during the "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair at Westham Island Herb Farm in Delta, Canada, on Sept. 7, 2019. The annual "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair kicked off on Saturday, featuring different agricultural interactive activities to educate communities about the nature and importance of agriculture and non-market environmental services. (Photo: Liang Sen/Xinhua) 

People look at tractors displayed during the "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair at Westham Island Herb Farm in Delta, Canada, on Sept. 7, 2019. The annual "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair kicked off on Saturday, featuring different agricultural interactive activities to educate communities about the nature and importance of agriculture and non-market environmental services. (Photo: Liang Sen/Xinhua) 

People learn to harvest potatoes during the "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair at Westham Island Herb Farm in Delta, Canada, on Sept. 7, 2019. The annual "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair kicked off on Saturday, featuring different agricultural interactive activities to educate communities about the nature and importance of agriculture and non-market environmental services. (Photo: Liang Sen/Xinhua) 

A visitor shops for some fresh vegetables during the "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair at Westham Island Herb Farm in Delta, Canada, on Sept. 7, 2019. The annual "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair kicked off on Saturday, featuring different agricultural interactive activities to educate communities about the nature and importance of agriculture and non-market environmental services. (Photo: Liang Sen/Xinhua) 

People tour around during the "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair at Westham Island Herb Farm in Delta, Canada, on Sept. 7, 2019. The annual "Day at the Farm" agricultural fair kicked off on Saturday, featuring different agricultural interactive activities to educate communities about the nature and importance of agriculture and non-market environmental services. (Photo: Liang Sen/Xinhua)   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Agricultural Fair kicks off in Canada to showcase agricultural products Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in USSaying no to violenceHow Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrants