People travel in a subway train, which is turned into a temporary museum to celebrate the upcoming National Day in Chengdu, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Sept. 18, 2019. More than 300 historic photos and pictures of historic items were on display in the museum set up in a subway train, showcasing the great changes in China, especially in Sichuan Province and Chengdu City, over the past 70 years. (Photo: Xinhua) 

Media reporters work in a subway train, which is turned into a temporary museum to celebrate the upcoming National Day in Chengdu, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Sept. 18, 2019. More than 300 historic photos and pictures of historic items were on display in the museum set up in a subway train, showcasing the great changes in China, especially in Sichuan Province and Chengdu City, over the past 70 years. (Photo: Xinhua) 

A passenger takes photos in a subway train, which is turned into a temporary museum to celebrate the upcoming National Day in Chengdu, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Sept. 18, 2019. More than 300 historic photos and pictures of historic items were on display in the museum set up in a subway train, showcasing the great changes in China, especially in Sichuan Province and Chengdu City, over the past 70 years. (Photo: Xinhua) 

Passengers take photos in a subway train, which is turned into a temporary museum to celebrate the upcoming National Day in Chengdu, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Sept. 18, 2019. More than 300 historic photos and pictures of historic items were on display in the museum set up in a subway train, showcasing the great changes in China, especially in Sichuan Province and Chengdu City, over the past 70 years. (Photo: Xinhua)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  300 drones perform dazzling show for China’s 70th anniversary People take part in flash mob in Shanghai to celebrate 70th anniversary of PRC founding Video: Young HKers commemorate 70th anniversary of the founding of PRC Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims