The Photo shows haze-shrouded Petronas Twin Towers in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, Sept. 12, 2019. (Xinhua/Lin Hao)Malaysian authorities began cloud seeding operations on Thursday in an attempt to combat persistent haze, officials said. Malaysia's Minister of Energy, Technology, Science, Climate Change and Environment (MESTECC) Yeo Bee Yin said a Malaysian airforce aircraft conducted cloud seeding with a salt solution in several areas of Sarawak state on Thursday afternoon. "The Malaysian Meteorological Department (MET) in cooperation with the National Disaster Management Agency, Royal Malaysian Airforce and Labuan Water Department carried out cloud seeding operations in Sarawak," she said in the social media posting. Meanwhile, MET Director-General Jailan Simon said the success of the operation depended on weather patterns, wind direction and atmospheric conditions. "This operation will not mean we are making rain, but we are hastening rain," he told state news agency Bernama. He added that despite the cloud seeding, the haze would return because of the southwest wind direction, and that this combined with continued forest fires would mean smoke would continue to be blown towards Malaysia. Yeo's Ministry had said last week that the cause of the haze was due to forest fires mainly in neighbouring Indonesia. Jailan said the haze was expected to persist until the end of September when the monsoon transitional period, which would bring heavy rain in the region. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Hazardous air Trump administration loosens control over methane emissions despite global warming hazards China takes further steps to protect cultural relics from fire hazards Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in USSaying no to violenceHow Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrants