PepsiCo, one of the world's leading food and beverage companies, announced Monday that it had partnered with China's leading "AI + Education" company LAIX Inc., China's leading on-demand logistics and omni-channel ecommerce firm Dada-JD Daojia and China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) to jointly launch the "Quaker with AI, Get Nutrition Home" public welfare program. The initiative will leverage AI to mobilize netizens and people from all walks of society to care about and improve the nutritional status of children in China's impoverished areas."Quaker with AI, Get Nutrition Home" is the three companies' first ever cross-brand public welfare program combining both offline and online activities. During the campaign, which runs from September 15 to 28, participants can choose to make donations in an AI-enabled feature on the H5 interactive page of the event, called "AI-powered voice unlocking of nutritious meals." They can also donate through JD Daojia's App page. All stores on JD Daojia's platform including Walmart and Yonghui will participate in this event, covering more than 100 cities. PepsiCo will donate its Quaker products to children in poverty-stricken areas where CFPA runs its Nutritious Meal program. The donations will be transported using the Dada-JD Daojia express delivery service. The two-week campaign is expected to provide a semester's worth of nutritional meals for about 1,800 students from nine primary schools in poor areas in Yunnan, Guizhou and Gansu provinces.Quaker is PepsiCo's flagship nutrition brand and the world's leading grain brand, with annual retail sales of more than $1 billion. Since entering the Chinese market, Quaker has grown in popularity to become the leading grain brand in China."As one of the first multinational companies to enter China, PepsiCo has been in China for nearly 40 years and has been actively supporting a number of social welfare projects, such as Water Cellar for Mothers and PepsiCo Nutrition in Action, while providing a variety of delicious food, drinks and nutritional products to Chinese consumers so as to make its modest contribution to the development of Chinese society," said Ram Krishnan, PepsiCo Global Chief Commercial Officer and CEO of the Greater China Region. "Through this cross-brand partnership, we hope that young people and the wider society can use new technologies to draw attention to and participate in the improvement of children's nutrition in China's impoverished areas."Deputy Executive Director of CFPA Qin Wei said that in destitute areas of China, the problems of children being underweight and suffering stunted growth are prominent due to their single dietary structure and unbalanced nutrition. Qin said, "We very much welcome PepsiCo to continue to work with CFPA on the implementation of targeted poverty alleviation and elimination. We'd also like to thank new partners in this venture, LAIX and Dada-JD Daojia, for their belief in CFPA."In addition to supporting the "Quaker with AI, Get Nutrition Home" campaign, Quaker brand also actively participates in the "PepsiCo Nutrition in Action" program jointly launched by PepsiCo and CFPA and its Nutritious Meals program. These initiatives help increase the nutrition and strengthen health awareness of students in poor rural areas in central and western China.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  PepsiCo makes strategic investment in Chinese Natural Food company Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in USSaying no to violenceHow Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrants