Vice Foreign Minister Zheng Zeguang (left), Mexican Ambassador to China José Luis Bernal (center), Tourism Minister of Mexico Miguel Torruco propose a toast. Photo: Yin Yeping/GTThe Mexican Embassy in China hosted the Mexican National Day activities on Wednesday, drawing the participation of hundreds of guests who got to experience Mexican delicacies and culture. In his speech, the Mexican Ambassador to China José Luis Bernal talked about the progress made in bilateral relations and cooperation in the international spectrum. "At the 2018 China International Import Expo in Shanghai, Mexico was invited as the guest of honor by the Chinese government, and Mexico's participation in the expo and the increase of bilateral trade in agricultural products have further promoted bilateral relations," Bernal said. Two-way investment also increased, especially in infrastructure, energy, communications, automobiles, electronics and home appliances. Bernal said that last year, Chinese investment in Mexico increased by 30 percent year-on-year. "Mexico and China have also maintained consistent positions at various international summits, especially in the United Nations, G20 and APEC, on issues such as the 2030 development agenda, multilateralism and free trade, combating climate change and maintaining world peace and security." The ambassador noted that Mexico attaches great importance to the China-Community of Latin American and Caribbean States Forum, as it is a very good platform for cooperation. In his speech at the event, Vice Foreign Minister Zheng Zeguang spoke highly of the growing bilateral relations. "China-Mexico relations have been developing steadily and rapidly, especially since the establishment of the comprehensive strategic partnership between China and Mexico six years ago. With the personal care and guidance of the leaders of the two countries, the exchanges at the top and all levels have become increasingly closer and political mutual trust has been strengthened," Zheng said. "We hope to further strengthen cooperation with Mexico in tourism, culture, sports and other cultural and people-to-people exchanges so as to strengthen the foundation for the development of our two countries." The Tourism Minister of Mexico Miguel Torruco also participated in the event. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Mexican Ambassador: Chinese, Mexicans share a common goal Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in USSaying no to violenceHow Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrants