A Philippine girl in folk costume performs during the 16th China-ASEAN Expo in Nanning, capital of south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. (Photo: Xinhua) 

A Malaysian girl in folk costume is seen during the 16th China-ASEAN Expo in Nanning, capital of south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Sept. 22, 2019. (Photo: Xinhua) 

Malaysian girls in folk costume perform during the 16th China-ASEAN Expo in Nanning, capital of south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Sept. 22, 2019. (Photo: Xinhua) 

Indonesian girls in folk costume perform during the 16th China-ASEAN Expo in Nanning, capital of south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Sept. 23, 2019. (Photo: Xinhua) 

A Cambodian girl in folk costume is seen during the 16th China-ASEAN Expo in Nanning, capital of south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Sept. 23, 2019. (Photo: Xinhua) 

Girls from Myanmar wearing folk costume dance during the 16th China-ASEAN Expo in Nanning, capital of south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Sept. 22, 2019. (Photo: Xinhua) 

A Vietnamese girl in folk costume performs during the 16th China-ASEAN Expo in Nanning, capital of south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Sept. 22, 2019. (Photo: Xinhua) 

Vietnamese girls in folk costume are seen during the 16th China-ASEAN Expo in Nanning, capital of south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Sept. 22, 2019. (Photo: Xinhua) 

Vietnamese girls in folk costume perform during the 16th China-ASEAN Expo in Nanning, capital of south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Sept. 22, 2019. (Photo: Xinhua)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Handicrafts exhibited during 16th China-ASEAN Expo in China's Nanning Highlights of 16th China-ASEAN Expo in south China 16th China-ASEAN Expo Agriculture Exhibition kicks off in Nanning Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims