Xi Jinping, Li Keqiang, Li Zhanshu, Wang Yang, Wang Huning, Zhao Leji, Han Zheng and Wang Qishan join over 4,000 people to watch a high-profile art performance, named "Stride Forward, the Nation," at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 29, 2019. The performance was held here on Sunday evening in celebration of the 70th founding anniversary of the People's Republic of China. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Xi Jinping and other leaders pose for a group photo with cast members after a high-profile art performance, named "Stride Forward, the Nation," at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 29, 2019. The performance was held here on Sunday evening in celebration of the 70th founding anniversary of the People's Republic of China. Xi Jinping, Li Keqiang, Li Zhanshu, Wang Yang, Wang Huning, Zhao Leji, Han Zheng and Wang Qishan joined over 4,000 people to watch the performance. (Photo: Xinhua)  



Xi Jinping, Li Keqiang, Li Zhanshu, Wang Yang, Wang Huning, Zhao Leji, Han Zheng and Wang Qishan join over 4,000 people to watch a high-profile art performance, named "Stride Forward, the Nation," at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 29, 2019. The performance was held here on Sunday evening in celebration of the 70th founding anniversary of the People's Republic of China.(Photo: Xinhua)  



Xi Jinping, Li Keqiang, Li Zhanshu, Wang Yang, Wang Huning, Zhao Leji, Han Zheng and Wang Qishan join over 4,000 people to watch a high-profile art performance, named "Stride Forward, the Nation," at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 29, 2019. The performance was held here on Sunday evening in celebration of the 70th founding anniversary of the People's Republic of China.(Photo: Xinhua)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Foreign military officers celebrate 70th PRC anniversary Chinese netizens welcome HK police officer to Beijing for 70th anniversary Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Surviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenshipHorse dancing  College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in US