Pakistani President Arif Alvi met with visiting Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi over the weekend, and they pledged to deepen cooperation in various fields between both countries. Pakistan views China as its most trustworthy "iron friend," President Alvi said, expressing gratitude for China's long-term and unselfish support and assistance for his country.    Any attempt to isolate China and impede its development will meet opposition from Pakistan and will be doomed to failure, he said.    While congratulating China on its remarkable achievements made over the last 70 years, Alvi noted that Pakistan stands ready to learn from China's successful development experience and speed up its own development through the joint construction of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).    He also said that Pakistan is willing to work with China to deepen anti-terrorism cooperation, to combat terrorism including the East Turkistan Islamic Movement and to protect the safety of Chinese nationals and projects in Pakistan.    The Pakistani president also expressed gratitude for China's understanding of, and support for, Pakistan in the international arena, saying that Pakistan is prepared to strengthen strategic communication and compare notes on regional and international affairs with China.    Wang Yi, for his part, said the China-Pakistan, all-weather strategic cooperative partnership, under the guidance of the two countries' leaders, has enjoyed strong development momentum.    He called on the two sides to work together to forge a closer China-Pakistan community with a shared future in the new era, to deepen across-the-board cooperation, and to build the CPEC into a model for high-quality development projects.    China will continuously advance the construction of the CPEC in the direction of industrial cooperation, the improvement of people's livelihoods and the development of Pakistan so as to upgrade the project and bring more benefits to local people, Wang said.    Facing regional and international circumstances fraught with uncertainties, the senior Chinese official said it is more significant for China and Pakistan to enhance strategic communication.    China is grateful to Pakistan for its firm support on issues concerning China's core interests, Wang said, adding that China will also continue to staunchly support Pakistan in its efforts to safeguard national sovereignty, dignity and territorial integrity as well as its legitimate rights and interests.    On Sunday, Wang also met with Pakistan's Chief of Army Staff Qamar Javed Bajwa.    Wang said that China will firmly support Pakistan in safeguarding its sovereignty, dignity and territorial integrity, and will support the government to achieve national stability, development and prosperity. China will also support Pakistan's aim to play a more constructive role in regional and international affairs.    The CPEC is related to Pakistan's long-term development. China appreciates the unremitting efforts made by the Pakistani military in the development of the project, especially in terms of security, said Wang. China welcomes and supports Pakistan's efforts to improve relations with Afghanistan and to promote peace and reconciliation in Afghanistan, he added.   Bajwa said that Pakistan is committed to advancing the all-weather strategic cooperative partnership with China, and will continue to support China on issues concerning China's core interests.     
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China, Pakistan vow to deepen cooperation in various fields Chinese, Pakistani air forces wrap up unprecedented mock battle exercises China's Wang Yi meets Pakistani, Afghan foreign ministers, vowing to maintain regional stability Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in USSaying no to violenceHow Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrants