Sudan's Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok. Photo: VCGSudan's Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok on Thursday announced the formation of the transitional cabinet, the first since the ouster of former President Omar al-Bashir. Hamdok made the announcement during a press conference in Khartoum, citing a constitutional decree issued by the chairman of the Sovereign Council. The decree appointed 18 ministers, but delayed the naming of the ministers of two ministries, including the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, and the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries. Under the decree, Jamal Omer is appointed as defense minister and Al-Teraifi Idriss as interior minister. The two were nominated by the military component in the Sovereign Council. The 18 ministers include four women, among whom is the country's first ever female Foreign Minister Asma Mohamed Abdullah. Former World Bank economist Ibrahim Elbadawi has been appointed finance minister.Hamdok said the formation of the cabinet marked a new phase and "if we better manage it, we will be able to build a homeland that we will all be proud of." He further stressed that the top priorities of the new government would be to achieve peace, end the war and carry out economic reforms. Last month, Sudan's Transitional Military Council and the opposition Freedom and Change Alliance officially signed the political and constitutional declarations, marking the beginning of the transitional rule after the fall of former President al-Bashir in April that was followed by months of massive protests. According to the declarations, the political structures during the transitional period include the sovereign council, the council of ministers and the legislative council. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Sudan's PM rejects interference in selection of transitional gov't ministers South Sudan's economy improving due to prevailing peace: minister Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in USSaying no to violenceHow Trump's immigration reform will affect new immigrants