Chinese President Xi Jinping (R) holds talks with Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa in Beijing, capital of China, April 29, 2019. (Xinhua/Huang Jingwen)  

Chinese President Xi Jinping holds talks with Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa in Beijing, capital of China, April 29, 2019. (Xinhua/Zhai Jianlan)  

Chinese President Xi Jinping holds a welcoming ceremony for Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa before their talks in Beijing, capital of China, April 29, 2019. (Xinhua/Rao Aimin)  

Chinese President Xi Jinping holds a welcoming ceremony for Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa before their talks in Beijing, capital of China, April 29, 2019. (Xinhua/Zhai Jianlan) Chinese President Xi Jinping held talks with Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa in Beijing on Monday. China and Portugal should deepen all-round cooperation and develop a comprehensive strategic partnership featuring higher level, broader vision and greater vitality, Xi said. He called on both sides to strengthen high-level exchanges, and accommodate each other's core interests and major concerns based on mutual respect and mutual trust. China regards Portugal as an important partner in the joint building of the Belt and Road, Xi said, adding that the two countries should deepen cooperation in fields including trade, investment, energy, infrastructure and electric vehicles. He called for firm support for the multilateral trading system and advancing the building of an open world economy. China is willing to work with Portugal in achieving more outcomes in the cooperation between China and Portuguese-speaking countries including Portugal, Xi said. Noting that Portugal firmly supports the joint building of the Belt and Road Initiative, Rebelo de Sousa said that his country is willing to deepen ties with China in economy, trade, investment, technology and culture, and expand third-party market cooperation. Portugal supports deepening Europe-China cooperation, and stands ready to jointly uphold multilateralism and advance free trade, he said. The two leaders attended a signing ceremony of bilateral cooperation documents after their talks. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun