Hong Kong residents hold a Chinese national flag and a picture of Occupy Central leader Tai Yiu-ting and a message in Chinese which means "Go to Jail" in English, outside a court in Hong Kong on Tuesday. Photo: AP A Hong Kong court's ruling on Tuesday on nine activists of the Occupy Central Movement, who were found guilty of public nuisance, highlighted justice and the rule of law in Hong Kong, and sends a tough signal to secessionist forces in the city, observers said. Two founders of the 79-day Occupy Central movement in 2014, Tai Yiu-ting and Chan Kin-man, were found guilty on Tuesday on two counts of public nuisance on Hong Kong's West Kowloon Court, and seven other activists of the movement were also found guilty of public nuisance. They face up to seven years in prison. Judge Johnny Chan said that although civil disobedience is recognized in Hong Kong, it cannot be used as a defense for criminal charges, and "the obstruction caused to the roads as a result of the launch of the Occupy Central movement on September 28, 2014 [is] unreasonable and hence unwarranted by the law," Radio Television Hong Kong reported on Tuesday. Tai and Chan advocated civil disobedience to demand changes to Hong Kong's electoral system, and snowballed into massive demonstrations, with thousands of protesters, including students, illegally paralyzing Hong Kong's main commercial and financial districts, causing schools and stores to close and buses routes to be rescheduled. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Lu Kang said at Tuesday's routine press conference that the central government firmly supports the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) in punishing the organizers of the movement according to law. The illegal movement seriously affected the rule of law in Hong Kong and caused serious damage to Hong Kong's prosperity, stability and public order, Lu said. "I believe it's unobjectionable for any country to make decisions to maintain public order under such circumstances." Zero tolerance Tian Feilong, an assistant professor at Beihang University in Beijing and a Hong Kong expert, told the Global Times on Tuesday that the ruling sent a strong signal to the followers of the movement and the secessionist forces in the city that their political goals, law-breaking activities and damages to the social order will not be tolerated, and this has also set up a judicial example for other similar social movements in Hong Kong. With the support of Western interference, the movement damaged the authority of Hong Kong's legal system, eroded youth organizations and paved way for the establishment of "Hong Kong separatist" organizations, Tian said. In response to those who say that the ruling showed shrinking democratic freedoms in Hong Kong, Lu said that such a one-sided understanding was groundless. Observers said that the outside forces wantonly interfered in China's internal affairs using the excuses of "human rights" and "freedom," or releasing Hong Kong related reports in recent years, which are just their old tricks. Political figures from Western countries have repeatedly expressed their support to the movement since 2014, and some foreign forces also backed the Hong Kong separatists.  "But the outside forces can only talk about it, and they never stand a chance of actually achieving their goals as the central government would never allow it to happen and would try all means to safeguard territorial integrity," Zhang Dinghuai, a professor at the Center for Basic Laws of Hong Kong and Macau Special Administration Region of Shenzhen University, told the Global Times. In the meantime, extremists colluding with outside forces trying to separate Hong Kong from the mainland have challenged the bottom line of one country, two systems, and would be punished severely, observers said.It would be a precedent in Hong Kong for politics to overpower law if those activists were unpunished, and the consequences could be catastrophic with social order in chaos and may even fall apart like dominoes, an expert who requested anonymity, told the Global Times.Tuesday's ruling was long awaited by Hong Kong society. Hong Kong residents believe that the nine people deserved to be punished, as local people suffered a lot from the damage to the Hong Kong economy and social stability caused by the movement, Hung Kam-in, a member of the Kwun Tong District Council in Hong Kong, said. Hong Kong-based newspaper Ta Kung Pao published an editorial on Tuesday, criticizing the nine activists for losing their conscience by undermining the rule of law, sending innocent young students to the frontline of violence, causing instability and pushing Hong Kong society to unprecedented confrontation and chaos. Not the endHowever, Tuesday's ruling did not mean the end of the case or full containment of Hong Kong secessionist forces, analysts said. The pernicious influence of the movement still exists, and followers of those activists, mostly young people, may repackage their political pursuits with other cloaks, Hung said. According to the South China Morning Post, before the court ruling, supporters of the nine activists surrounded the court building, applauding them when they arrived. Some young activists have spread provocative speeches outside Hong Kong. Last year at a seminar in Taipei, Tai Yiu-ting said "We could consider going independent, being part of a federal system or a confederation system similar to that of the European Union."Such actions and comments highlight the urgent need for Hong Kong to enact Article 23 of the Basic Law, which requires the city to enact its own legislation banning any act of treason, secession, sedition or subversion against the central government, according to Tian. The central government could take corresponding measures to show ultimate responsibility for China's national sovereignty and security, Tian said. "Hong Kong's current law can contain the Hong Kong secessionist forces to some extent; completely containing such forces needs the central government's efforts and the enactment of Article 23 of the Basic Law," Tian told the Global Times. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar