A science teacher tells students about black hole at Sandu Primary School in Zhuji, East China's Zhejiang Province on Thursday. Photo: VCGAstronomers with the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT) project unveiled the first-ever close-up photo of a black hole late on Wednesday, which swiftly ignited the passion of Chinese net users and space fans, inspiring the creation of a multitude of memes across social media platforms. The disclosure of the first-ever photograph of a black hole is "the first direct visual evidence of a supermassive black hole and its shadow," according to a press release the EHT sent to the Global Times late Wednesday. For Chinese space fans, it immediately sparked enormous enthusiasm and creativity. The photo captures the black hole's shadow against a disc of glowing gas that falls onto the black hole.Almost as soon as the EHT press conference concluded, the hashtag "world's first photo of black hole" on China's Twitter-like Sina Weibo garnered more than 200 million views and some 800,000 comments. It had been viewed almost 500 million times as of press time on Thursday. Many netizens wrote that they are proud to be among the first generation of human beings to see a black hole, and some paid tribute to physics legends Albert Einstein and Stephen Hawking. "Seeing is believing for the rest of us. Einstein knew it, and he got it right again," one wrote, while others lamented that Hawking could not share in the global moment.  Chen Xuelei, a research fellow with the National Astronomical Observatories at the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) in Beijing, told the Global Times that "even after this first photo of a black hole, we remain at a very primary stage in terms of understanding the extreme object, and at present, the possibility of interstellar travel is next to zero."Astronomical reactionBut even though space experts have introduced a note of reality to the excitement, astronomy enthusiasts have let their imaginations run wild. 

Photo: WeiboChinese netizens held a black hole Photoshop contest on Weibo, drawing some 5.86 million followers to let their imagination run free. 

Photo: WeiboSome compared the donut-like circle of light to the holes in a charcoal briquette - commonly seen on the streets of North China in the winter - or to the evil eye of Sauron as depicted in the Hollywood blockbuster Lord of the Rings. Some made emoji memes, adding eyes and teeth to the circle of light, while others used it to decorate the pupils of cat or fox drawings or cartoon figures. 

Photo: WeiboSome official Weibo accounts have also joined in, using the photo as marketing stunts to equate the lure of their company to the gravitational pull of the black hole that is so immense that after passing a certain point, nothing escapes, not even electromagnetic radiation. Shenzhen Airlines on Weibo also edited the black hole photo as an airplane engine with the light circle at its core, and wrote "with the supersized engine, we are destined for the ocean of stars."

Photo: WeiboPolice in Jiangyou, Southwest China's Sichuan Province attached the black hole image to its police walkie-talkie, saying "vacuum clean all criminal elements, nothing escapes the eyes of law enforcement."Project unites nationsTaking a picture of the black hole is a very complicated process. However, the way EHT presented its findings and discoveries, by turning complex research into such an interaction-friendly visualized form to the public, serves as a great educational example for other astronomical projects, Yuan Qiang, a research fellow at the CAS Purple Mountain Observatory in Nanjing, told the Global Times on Thursday. The observatory operates the Wukong Dark Matter Particle Explorer (DAMPE), which was launched in 2015. The enormous spike in public interest in astronomy after the press conference will significantly improve the popularization of space science, which in return, will mobilize public awareness of and support for space science, said Yuan, who is a member of the DAMPE team. "This is an extraordinary scientific feat accomplished by a team of more than 200 researchers," EHT project director Sheperd S. Doeleman of the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard said in the press release. The EHT on Wednesday announced that it "saw" the black hole at the center of massive galaxy M87, 55 million light years from Earth, with a mass 6.5 billion times that of the sun. It unveiled a picture of the literally unseeable object, a donut-like structure with a dark central region and a bright ring around it, marking the event horizon, beyond which all light is sucked into the black hole.The EHT is an international effort linking eight ground-based radio telescopes around the globe to pursue a long-standing goal in astrophysics to directly observe the immediate environment of a black hole.To accomplish the feat, there are eight telescopes in six EHT array sites around the world, including the South Pole Telescope in Antarctica, and the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope in Hawaii.Chinese scientists participated in the observations in Spain and Hawaii and made contributions to the data analysis and theoretical explanation of the black hole."International cooperation, with the world's best minds and research tools combined, is no doubt a new trend in astronomical research," Yuan noted. Yuan said China has participated in multiple EHT-like programs in the field of space research and exploration, such as the DAMPE project. "Scientists from Europe participated in the sensor building for the satellite and the data collected by the satellite is open to the international community, and we worked together on the data process," Yuan said. Also, just like the EHT, China's radio telescopes also participated in an international collaboration project codenamed The Bar And Spiral Structure Legacy (BeSSeL) Survey, the goal of which is to map the dynamic structure of the Milky Way, Chinese scientists said. The project team consists of scientists from 15 institutes around the world including Nanjing University in China, and Yamaguchi University in Japan. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandasSeeing the future