Photo of Richard Liu Qiangdong in Beijing in March 2018 Photo: ICA public relations campaign built around an entrepreneur could be a double-edged sword, Chinese analysts said, as an alleged instance of sexual assault misconduct by Chinese e-commerce company JD.com Chief Executive Richard Liu Qiangdong continued to ferment.University of Minnesota student Liu Jingyao last week commenced a civil lawsuit against Liu, seeking $50,000 in damages, which has attracted tens of hundreds of students and supporters online to support her.Billionaire entrepreneur Liu walked away from sexual assault criminal charges by the same woman in December after his abrupt arrest in Minnesota in August last year.At a website dedicated to support student Liu, about 1,000 messages were received within 24 hours. The website wrote that just as Richard Liu was put in the spotlight for his statements on the "996" overtime culture, he was in the news yet again for his alleged sexual assault misconduct.In recent weeks, the businessman was under pressure for weighing in on China's intense "996" work culture, criticizing "slackers are not my brothers" in his company. The statement coupled with reported significant downsizing by JD.com.Experts said that corporate executives must avoid making public statements that can be deemed as selfish, racist, or misogynist. Lu Zhenwang, an independent e-commerce analyst, told the Global Times on Sunday that JD.com is now facing multiple backlashes as Liu's public image of being a good husband and competent corporate leader has collapsed."JD.com as a company is dented both in valuation and in its future. The sacking of former 'brothers' has affected the morale of many deliverymen, one of JD's key assets. Public confidence has been shattered," Lu said. Key executives shouldn't promise too much, Lu added.Many Chinese companies have major executives as walking ads - for instance, Dong Mingzhu for Gree Electric, a major maker of home appliances based in Zhuhai, South China's Guangdong Province. Jack Ma Yun is an emblem for e-commerce platform Alibaba. Wang Danqing, a partner with Beijing-based ACME consultancy, told the Global Times Sunday that there's good synergy if the company's "face" has a positive public image. "But the case of the Richard Liu also showed that sometimes, the behavior of key people can be a double-edged sword," Wang said.  Lu said key people can make intellectual achievements, such as former chairman and CEO of General Electric Jack Welch, whose books on management insights fall into that category, experts said. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas