Traffic accidents pose a great threat to the lives and safety of people worldwide. An estimated 1.35 million individuals die every year in road traffic accidents, and road traffic injuries have risen to become the main cause of death for people between five and 29 years old, according to the Global status report on road safety 2018 launched by the World Health Organization in December 2018.Are there effective ways to reduce road traffic accidents? How can technology be applied to enhance road safety? A conference focusing on China's road safety and innovative digital solutions to reducing traffic casualties was held at Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences on Thursday and Friday. The "Road Safety and Digital Innovation: Asia-Pacific Conference" is a collaboration between different parties, including the multinational company AB InBev, the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR), Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences (SASS), and Shanghai Tongji University.Attended by over 80 government officials, experts and business leaders from China and the Asia-Pacific region, the conference featured several keynote speeches.

Jan Craps, CEO and president of APAC, AB InBevCraps said as an enterprise with high social responsibility, AB InBev has been working with different social forces, including international organizations, academic institutions, multinational companies and government departments, to find innovative but pragmatic methods to effectively reduce road traffic casualties.One example is Together for Safer Roads (TSR) Shanghai Pilot, a road safety project initiated by AB InBev in 2015. According to Craps, AB InBev has been collaborating with traffic police departments of the Shanghai Public Security Bureau and academic institutions represented by Tongji University over the past four years. "The TSR Shanghai Pilot turned out to be an exemplary multi-stakeholder mechanism, covering a range of programs including 'analysis and improvement of accident-prone roads' and 'behavioral-analysis-based commercial drive safety education' that yielded positive results and effectively reduced road traffic casualty rates," Craps said at the conference.Apart from the TSR Shanghai Pilot, AB InBev has been campaigning against drunk driving in China since 2008, and in 2018, AB InBev expanded the campaign to southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region.Together with its partners, AB InBev has incorporated big data screening into its programs to conduct in-depth analysis of multiple crash factors, type and cause for several crash-prone roads in suburban Shanghai."We have used big data to analyze different roads in Shanghai to see why accidents are happening there. And the teams have proposed different solutions, whether it is infrastructure, whether it is traffic lights, whether it is education," he told the Global Times, adding big data technology has helped to reduce the traffic accident rate by more than 50 percent in Shanghai."This year, we embraced a partnership with UNITAR to jointly host the Road Safety Asia-Pacific Conference, further deepening our commitment towards improving road safety," Craps said at the conference. 

Estrella Merlos, associate director of CIFAL Global Network of UNITARChina has witnessed great improvement in addressing risk factors related to road safety, according to Estrella Merlos, who is responsible for overseeing, coordinating and supporting the CIFAL Global Network in UNITAR. Merlos pointed out that addressing road safety is complicated, and it therefore requires collaboration among different stakeholders, including academic institutions, private enterprises, government, media, and international organizations."I think all institutions have expertise and knowledge that they can share," Merlos said. She added that it is important for UNITAR to have a private sector partner like AB InBev. "The private sector is a key partner, not only because the private sector can provide resources, but also because the private sector can also bring expertise," Merlos told the Global Times.

Sangwon Lee, traffic safety instructor at the Education Department of KoRoad in South Korea According to Lee, speed cameras and traffic light cameras are widely used in South Korea to monitor drivers' behavior and make roads safer. "By using the camera, we check the traffic and speed violation for 24 hours and increase the fairness of enforcement," he said.In terms of where to install cameras, Lee said the ideal places are road sections with relatively high traffic accident and complaint rates, while roads around schools and pedestrians are also key areas to monitor. "According to the government data from fixed cameras, there was an 18 percent reduction in the number of accidents and a 54.4 percent reduction in the number of fatalities in 2016. The cameras should be an effective way of reducing traffic collisions on the road," Lee said.

Ding Bin, director of Publicity Center of Traffic Police Headquarters of Shanghai Public Security BureauDing said digital tools have been playing a significant role in Shanghai's management and supervision of motor vehicles on roads.Shanghai has around 8 million registered motor vehicles, including private cars, commercial trucks and motor bikes, with around 5 million of them in use each day, Ding said, suggesting the huge vehicle volume poses a great challenge to local traffic police.  "Around 40,000 cases of traffic violations are caught in Shanghai each day, and electronic police [automatic detection and measurement technology to catch traffic violations or accidents] contribute a lot to the work," Ding said. "Currently around 38 types of electronic police are in use citywide."The application of electronic police has effectively curbed misbehavior by Shanghai drivers, such as improper use of car lights, lane changes and use of mobile phones. "The electronic police can evaluate the position of your hands and ears, and can figure out whether you are using a mobile phone while driving or not," Ding said at the conference. He added it is difficult for human police to catch all improper use of car lights, but for electronic police, it is easy, and the accuracy rate is high.

Dhanpay Singh, additional chief secretary to Transport Department, Government of Haryana, IndiaSingh shared some achievements of Safer Roads For Gurugram (SRFG), a project facilitated by AB InBev to enhance road safety in Gurugram, a city in northern India. "Through our on-ground engagements, such as health checks, defensive driving training for truckers and cab drivers, street plays, flash mobs, and road safety training for schools and colleges, we have reached out to over 200,000 citizens of Gurugram during the Road Safety Week celebrations in April 2018," Singh said. He added they also organized a high-level dialogue on road safety in Gurugram in August 2018, and attracted stakeholders from India and South Asia. Apart from these achievements, Singh added they have introduced an online activity in India to collect survey answers and stories related to road safety. "While we gathered about 8,000 responses to the detailed survey, we also received more than 50 stories from over 900,000 people," he said. Singh noted that they have also focused their attention on data-driven methods to enhance road safety. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun