Flames engulf the Notre Dame Cathedral on Monday in Paris. Photo: ICThe damage done to the Notre Dame Cathedral in the fire that occurred early this week has broken the hearts of people all over the world. In China, netizens flocked to social media to express their sadness. While most of them have never actually visited the cathedral, many of them were deeply familiar with the building because of its appearance in French writer Victor Hugo's 1831 novel The Hunchback of Notre Dame. Set in the Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris in 1482, the novel tells the tragic romance story of the hunchbacked bell-ringer Quasimodo and the beautiful Gypsy street dancer Esmeralda. The Hunchback of Notre Dame has had a far-reaching impact in China. In 1890, a Chinese version translated by Chen Jingrong was published in China. One of the earliest foreign language books imported to China, it showed a different face of the Western world to Chinese readers. Over the next 30 years, another 13 Chinese translations were published. Even today, the novel still has a major place in the lives of Chinese as it is still on the recommended reading lists for Chinese high school students. On Chinese media review site Douban, The Hunchback of Notre Dame novel has an 8.6/10 from nearly 1,000 reviews. Most of the reviews express sympathy for Quasimodo and Esmeralda. However, some readers commented that they see the character of Claude Frollo, the villain of the book, is actually a victim of religion and the main character for Hugo to express his views against religion and feudalism. Besides his famous novel, Hugo is also well-known in China for his stance on the protection of historic landmarks and his objection to the razing and looting of Beijing's Yuanmingyuan, or Old Summer Palace, by Anglo-French forces in 1860.The fire at Notre Dame Cathedral reminded Chinese netizens of the destroyed palace. On April 16, the official Sina Weibo account for Yuanmingyuan posted a message on Sina Weibo stating that every cultural relic is a symbol of different cultures and every museum is a treasure trove for human civilization. While it may be years or even decades before the cathedral is reopened, Chinese audiences will be able to appreciate its beauty when the French musical adaptation of The Hunchback of Notre Dame is performed at the BAIC Shanghai Culture Square from July 18 to August 11. A total of 31 performances of the musical, written by French-Canadian lyricist Luc Plamondon and was composed by Italian musician Riccardo Cocciante, will be held during this time. The musical debuted before audiences in Cannes on January 1998. The 20th anniversary version coming this summer has already attracted the attention of music fans since it was announced in March. According to media reports, tickers sold out during the first two rounds of sales, and two more rounds are coming in the future.Newspaper headline: Not to be forgotten Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas