Pedestrians walk past an advertisement for 5G mobile network service in South Korea on Thursday. The country launched the world's first nationwide 5G mobile network, ahead of China and the US. Photo: VCGWhile South Korea and the US have been arguing with each other over the launch of the world's first 5G network, creating hype for local carriers, Chinese analysts said that without the participation of China or Chinese companies, the world will not see a real commercial 5G roll-out.  Major carriers in South Korea and their US counterpart Verizon Communications claimed to have commercially launched 5G networks on Wednesday, according to media reports. The two countries are also reportedly ahead of their major competitor, China, which is the largest telecoms market in the world. However, South Korea and the US have been fighting with each other about who was actually the first to roll out the next generation of mobile network. Verizon dismissed the launch by SK Telecom, a major carrier in the Asian country, by calling it a PR stunt, Japanese media Nikkei Asian Review reported on Thursday. Besides the spat for title, testers in both countries described disappointing overall experiences with 5G network connectivity, according to US technology website venturebeat.com. For instance, SK Telecom's 5G signal in Seoul cut out frequently and did not deliver the 2.7 Gbps advertised earlier for hybrid 4G-5G service, the media report said. In Chicago, the US where Verizon rolled out its 5G services, it was found that the 5G signal on a Motorola phone sometimes flickered down to 4G, and sometimes delivered speeds below 72 Mbps. "It's normal that users in South Korea and the US did not have a good user experience, as the two countries have not fully fulfilled basic requirements for commercial 5G roll-out," Xiang Ligang, director-general of the Information Consumption Alliance, told the Global Times on Sunday. Mature 5G services need full coverage of major cities, the launch of various types of 5G smartphones, and lower prices compared with 4G, he noted. "China is leading ahead in these three aspects, as well as the establishment of 5G base stations," he said. South Korean carrier LG Uplus was also among the first local carriers to launch the world's first 5G. Previously, the carrier had deployed more than 10,000 5G sites across the country with the help of China's Huawei Technologies. "Latest reports showed that LG Uplus' 5G user growth was twice the number of its competitors, reflecting that customers trust its products and services," Huang Haifeng, deputy chief editor of domestic industry news site cww.net.cn, told the Global Times. Compared with its foreign rivals, Chinese carriers are smarter to take a cautious stance by implementing 5G trials and building networks step by step, analysts suggested. "We can see concrete progress every day, and China contributes more to mature 5G commercial use by lowering investment risks and offering high-quality products," Fu Liang, a veteran industry analyst, told the Global Times on Sunday. China to be offered Russia's 'best warplane' Su-57New Zealand Prime Minister visits ChinaIndia's nationalistic media could disrupt China-India ties Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar