Chinese President Xi Jinping (R) holds talks with Nepalese President Bidhya Devi Bhandari in Beijing, capital of China, April 29, 2019. (Xinhua/Huang Jingwen) 

Chinese President Xi Jinping holds talks with Nepalese President Bidhya Devi Bhandari in Beijing, capital of China, April 29, 2019. (Xinhua/Zhai Jianlan) 

Chinese President Xi Jinping holds a welcoming ceremony for Nepalese President Bidhya Devi Bhandari before their talks in Beijing, capital of China, April 29, 2019. (Xinhua/Huang Jingwen) 

Chinese President Xi Jinping holds a welcoming ceremony for Nepalese President Bidhya Devi Bhandari before their talks in Beijing, capital of China, April 29, 2019. (Xinhua/Zhang Ling) Chinese President Xi Jinping held talks with Nepalese President Bidhya Devi Bhandari in Beijing on Monday. China highly values the development of bilateral relations, and supports Nepal's efforts in safeguarding national independence, sovereign and territorial integrity, and in exploring a development path suited to Nepal's own conditions, Xi said. He expressed appreciation for Nepal's long-time firm support on issues related to China's core interests and major concerns, and Nepal's active participation in the Belt and Road Initiative. China and Nepal should strengthen cooperation in infrastructure construction, and continue to advance the construction of cross-border economic cooperation zone, Xi said, adding that China is willing to continue to support Nepal's economic and social development. Xi called on the two countries to intensify exchanges among legislative institutions, political parties, youth, think tanks and media, consolidate public support for China-Nepal friendship, and advance the friendly cooperative relations to a new level. Bhandari said that China's prosperity and stability present opportunities to Nepal, and her country is willing to deepen mutually beneficial cooperation with China in various fields. She said that Nepal adheres to the one-China policy, and that Nepal will not allow any forces to engage in anti-China activities by using the territory of Nepal. The two heads of state attended a ceremony for the signing of bilateral cooperation documents after the talks. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun