Chinese fans waiting to see Avengers: Endgame pose for a picture in a theater in Beijing on Tuesday night. Photo: ICWith Hollywood blockbuster Avengers: Endgame making waves in China on Wednesday, Chinese critics called on filmmakers to feature more heroes portraying Chinese values to international screens.More than 3.27 million Chinese viewers celebrated the "holy event" by attending the Hollywood film's premiere. The midnight premiere across the Chinese mainland grossed 179 million yuan ($26 million), according to data from online movie ticketing platform Maoyan on Wednesday.Its presale box office was a new record of 774 million yuan. The presale box office for Avengers: Infinity War was 417 million yuan, Maoyan said. Sui Jing, a managing director of Beijing-based Rijdoj Cinema, told the Global Times on Wednesday that "the occupancy for the premiere at our cinema was 98 percent, and I have never seen such an incredible attendance rate in our cinema before, with 19 out of 21 screening rooms scheduled to show the blockbuster.""More than 3,500 moviegoers poured into the cinema several hours before the screening, with some of them even imitating their favorite Marvel superheroes," Sui noted."It is breathtaking to imagine millions of Chinese Marvel fans wandering the streets around 3 am after the premiere," said a Sina Weibo user. The hashtag "Avengers4 premiere" attracted 820 million views as of press time and nearly 259,000 posts were seen under the hashtag, once again proving the reputation of the Marvel Cinematic Universe in China.Most Chinese netizens said the last episode of Avengers is beyond expectations. Some said they were touched by the film, calling it an "epic" and the "best tribute" to the Avengers series. Call for Chinese superheroes While Chinese moviegoers are immersed in the blockbuster, some Chinese film critics said Chinese society also needs to produce its own superhero blockbusters that convey Chinese values on screen.Shi Wenxue, a Beijing-based film critic, told the Global Times on Wednesday that China filmmakers do portray heroes on screen with Chinese characteristics, such as Sun Wukong, known as the Monkey King from the classic literary tale Journey to the West, and martyrs such as Dong Cunrui, a communist soldier who detonated explosives he was holding to destroy a Kuomintang bunker killing himself in the process in Hebei Province in 1948. Shi said the Chinese also tend to express their own hero characters through swordsman movies and dramas. The recent military film Wolf Warrior and science fiction film The Wandering Earth can be considered quasi-Hollywood blockbusters. Both attracted widespread acclaim from international viewers. From Mulan to the Kung Fu Panda series, Western filmmakers have shown their passion for traditional Chinese culture and folklore. Mulan, an iconic ancient Chinese heroine who impressed the world in the 1998 Disney animated movie, will gain worldwide attention again in the 2020 live-action version. "The success of Mulan lies in the story of a little daughter's love for her family," a Beijing-based film director surnamed Yu told the Global Times on Wednesday. "For many Western audiences, stories about family bonds are a good way to help them understand Chinese people. Also, the comedy featuring Chinese-style elements adds to the story's appeal."The Oscar-winning animated short Bao is the latest example to prove it. Bao takes advantage of traditional food culture to talk about universal issues and family bonds, Yu said.To make real international superhero blockbusters, Chinese filmmakers not only need to explore films that deliver Chinese values but also create movies that strike a sympathetic chord among international audiences, Shi said.Different from superheroes portrayed by the West, who embody Western values, Chinese superheroes should represent individualism and collectivism at the same time and transfer the Chinese values of creating a community with a shared future for mankind to the world through the screen, Zhang Peng, a film researcher at Nanjing University's National Research Center of Cultural Industries, told the Global Times on Wednesday.But Zhang said the insufficient development of the film industry has hindered Chinese filmmakers from creating blockbusters equivalent to those by the Marvel Cinematic Universe.Unlike the US, China lacks training programs for scriptwriters and mature publicity and advertising professionals. Chinese film companies are mostly small-scale. But it's worth mentioning that Chinese filmmakers are competitive in film techniques, such as 3D, Zhang noted. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas