Illustration: Liu Rui/GTAccording to Japan's Sankei Shimbun, Japan-US economic and trade negotiations in Washington ended on Tuesday. The two sides discussed tariffs on agricultural and industrial products over two days and agreed to take up digital trade including e-commerce and music distribution services as part of the new negotiations. However, the consensus reached was limited. This round of trade talks was a continuation of the Japan-US summit in September 2018, at which Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and US President Donald Trump agreed to start new negotiations on a trade agreement on goods. Therefore, this round of talks included more detailed and in-depth discussions. Japan's deficit with the US is decreasing, but economic and trade conflicts between the two have not decreased. Trade statistics released by the US Department of Commerce in March has shown that the US trade in goods with Japan had a deficit of $67.63 billion in 2018, a decrease of 1.8 percent from 2017. Besides, Japan was ranked the country with the fourth-largest trade deficit with the US in 2018.Worse still, the Trump administration has been exerting pressure on Japan in terms of agricultural exports and automobile market expansion.Agriculture is critical to Japan, and farmers are one of the most important groups for the Abe administration. The auto industry is as well the main industry of the Japanese economy. Therefore, Abe may make concessions on economic and trade issues with the US, but only to an extent.The trade negotiation this time serves as a link between the 2018 Japan-US summit and the future. By the end of April, Abe will visit the US for a summit with Trump. The outcome of the recent talks is important because if Trump is not satisfied with its progress, trade and economy will become the focus of the upcoming US-Japan summit. Politics and diplomacy, which Abe would like to concentrate on, will become secondary. In fact, in current Japan-US relations, trade is much more important and sensitive than politics. This is because trade has the potential to hurt relations, and Trump is not known for lasting alliances. Apparently, Abe does not want Japan-US relations to be harmed by trade and economic factors.Besides, Japan will hold its House of Councilors election in July. Although only half the members of the House will participate, the result will affect the future of Japan's politics, especially Abe's aim of constitutional amendment. Thus, the Abe administration is not likely to give away too much to Washington on trade as it may not make the Japanese people and opposition parties happy. China and Japan on Sunday held their fifth high-level economic dialogue in Beijing. It was attended by six Japanese cabinet ministers, including Foreign Minister Taro Kono. This shows that the Abe administration values economic and trade cooperation with China. During the high-level dialogue, the two sides reached a consensus on 10 aspects including deepening economic cooperation and safeguarding multilateralism and free trade.Besides, Japanese Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Hiroshige Seko met Chinese Minister of Commerce Zhong Shan in Beijing on Tuesday, reaching a consensus on promoting the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, which involves 16 countries including China and Japan, to achieve more progress in 2019. The two ministers also agreed to speed up China-Japan cooperation in third-party markets. The neighbors made quite a bit of progress in the two-day talks.The two countries are likely to deepen and expand their economic and trade cooperation amid improving ties and the pressure being piled by the US on Japan. Meanwhile, 2019 is crucial for the Japanese economy. Tokyo cut its assessment on the economy in March for the first time in the past three years. In October, the Abe administration will raise the consumption tax rate from 8 percent to 10 percent, as promised. This is likely to affect consumer demand and Japan's economic growth. In addition, the international trade scenario is quite uncertain. This being the case, it is conducive for Japan to minimize the risks it could face by strengthening economic and trade contacts with China. Before the upcoming US presidential election in 2020, Trump, who has already kicked off a re-election campaign, is seeking economic and trade achievements. Although the trade talks between Japan and the US were launched after Washington signed deals with Europe and Mexico, Japan will not be overlooked by the US. During Trump's election campaign in 2016, he often made an issue of Japan. Hence, it is highly likely that the US will ratchet up pressure on Japan. For the time being, the Abe administration delays its responses to US heat on economic and trade issues, but how long can such tactics last?The author is an editor at the Global Times and an observer of Japan issues. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas