Local residents take a closer look at a patrol robot in a police station in Northeast China's Liaoning Province. Photo: ICChina's first 5G police station, featuring cutting-edge technology such as AR glass and patrol drones, was recently unveiled in Bao'an district in Shenzhen, South China's Guangdong Province, according to media reports. According to a report by sznews.com, the police station is located in Tangtou village in the western Bao'an district of Shenzhen, a city many consider the next Silicon Valley. The station has only 46 police staff but covers around 123,000 people. The 5G-related technology has been deployed with an aim to increase police efficiency and release pressure on police staff. Key applications of the 5G technology have enabled real-time ultra-high definition image transmission, facial recognition, police drone patrol and AR smart glasses at the station. So far, China Telecom's Shenzhen branch has set up four 5G base stations in the police coverage region, and another ten base stations are planned to be established next year to support 5G applications, according to the report. A facial recognition system is made possible by the 5G network, which allows facial images captured by AR glasses to be matched instantly with past criminal records, according to the report. Cameras are also attached to motorbikes to take pictures of people's faces and license plates on the back of vehicles, a design that drastically increases the efficiency of information gathering. Drones and patrol robots are used to transmit real-time data enabling the police head office to see and collaborate with the patrol group in crime scenes. Eight drone routes have been designed and put into use so far to facilitate better police supervision in the region. The deployment of drones has allowed real-time footage of police work to be transmitted to the police head office through the 5G network. Patrol robots, which are equipped with six high-definition cameras, have become a crucial part of the patrol system to make 24-hour police patrol possible. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun