Parents are thankful that it wasn't a school day when a building collapsed on a neighboring kindergarten during demolition work in Northwest China.  Children attending the kindergarten in Qindu district in Xianyang, Shaanxi Province will have to stay at home for at least a week after many of their classrooms were destroyed. According to a statement from the local education bureau on Tuesday night, while Bihao Real Estate Development Company was demolishing a factory building, the building fell toward the kindergarten, causing seven classrooms, four restrooms, three kitchens and a clinic room to collapse at 6 pm on Sunday.Bihao is a subsidiary of China's real estate giant, Country Garden, according to Tianyancha.com, a business inquiry service provider.The company which owns the kindergarten had reached an agreement with the demolisher for compensation on Tuesday afternoon. A repair plan was made to clear the ruins as soon as possible in order to resume classes on Monday, said the statement. Chinese social media on Tuesday erupted when a Net user, claiming to be a parent of a student, posted photos and videos of the ruins on Sina Weibo. The education bureau had proposed to assign about 400 students to other neighboring kindergartens, but parent representatives rejected the plan, an employee of the bureau surnamed Li told the Global Times on Wednesday. The local government also posted the statement on its official Sina Weibo account, but the parents and netizens have not been appeased. Some wondered if the demolition company was qualified and properly certified to carry out the demolition. "What if the collapse took place on a weekday?" a Sina Weibo user asked. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandasSeeing the future