Illustration: Liu Rui/GTJapan's Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga has announced the name of Japan's next imperial era "Reiwa." It is adopted from Manyoshu, an eighth-century anthology of classical poetry. The period will formally begin on May 1 when Crown Prince Naruhito succeeds his father Emperor Akihito on the Chrysanthemum throne, ending the 30-year run of the Heisei era (1989-2019). Looking back at Japan's modern and contemporary history, one finds that compared to the Showa era (1926-89), which was full of changes and progress, the Heisei era has been a period of inactivity. It's true that the past 30 years have seen Japan achieve success in many fields. Japanese scientists have impressed the world by frequently winning the Nobel Prizes, particularly after the millennium dawned. However, seeds of the achievements that were accomplished in the Heisei era were sown during the Showa era. The early Showa period (1926-45) featured militarism and wars. The dividends and glory Japan enjoyed in the Heisei period mainly stem from the creativity and resource accumulation in the middle and late years of the Showa era (1945-89). For instance, the coming into force of the Constitution in 1947 not only changed Japanese militarism to democracy, but also paved the way for rapid economic development thereafter. The Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security between the United States and Japan, signed in 1951, avoided the risk of involvement in international or regional disputes, thus enabling Japan to concentrate more on economic reconstruction. In 1955, the Liberal Democratic Party of Japan (LDP) was formed, marking the start of the 1955 system, in which the party successively held majority government. The dominance of the LDP, though sometimes shaking the foundation of Japan's democratic system, improved administrative efficiency and policy continuity. The diplomatic tune set during the middle and late years of the Showa era made Japan quickly recover from defeat in WWII and helped it become a developed country.  When we look at Japan in the Heisei era today, we find that political instability and economic downturn are two prominent features. Therefore, it may not have left a rich legacy for the Reiwa era. There have been 17 Japanese prime ministers from 1989 to 2019, with an average office term of about 1.7 years. During the Showa Era, there were 32 prime ministers whose average office term was about 1.9 years, which was close to the Heisei Era. There were four long-term administrations during the Showa Era - the Eisaku Sato administration, the Shigeru Yoshida administration, the Yasuhiro Nakasone administration and the Hayato Ikeda administration. The four prime ministers made crucial contributions to Japan's development after WWII. But in the Heisei Era, only the Junichiro Koizumi administration and the current Abe rule can be regarded as long-term. Absence of long-term administrations doesn't allow stable implementation of policies. There were two regime changes during the Heisei Era - the Morihiro Hosokawa administration in 1993 and the 2009 Yukio Hatoyama administration which made him the first prime minister from the Democratic Party of Japan. The Hosokawa administration lasted only seven months and the three-year Hatoyama administration left behind no concrete political achievements. However, the two regime changes had important meanings - the LDP, as a long-term ruling party, cannot maintain its absolute advantage in the Heisei Era. The LDP needed to compete with opposition parties during the Showa Era as well. But instead of losing power, the LDP could maintain it in the long run with the party's own advantages. But the LDP lost power two times in the Heisei Era and had to partner with the Komeito in a coalition government. This means the LDP has lost support among Japanese people, and it may happen again in the future.During the Showa Era, Japan experienced rapid economic growth as well as short periods of economic downturn. But the economic downturn lasted almost throughout the Heisei Era. According to the International Monetary Fund, Japan's average GDP growth rate from 1989 to 2018 was 1.26 percent, among which the highest was 4.89 percent in 1990 and 5.42 percent in 2009. There was a significant gap between China and Japan. China's average GDP growth rate from 1989 to 2018 was 9.23 percent, among which the highest was 14.3 percent in 1992. Because of China's strengthening economy and the narrowing gap between China and Japan, the former overtook Japan in 2010 as the world's second largest economy. Japan became the world's second largest economy in the Showa Era in 1968, but lost the position in the Heisei Era. This became a turning point for Japan's economy after WWII. Abenomics has somewhat stimulated the Japanese economy, but it is still too fragile to come out of deflation.Era names break up time and show that people look forward to a better future. "Reiwa" is a new start, but it doesn't mean that the problems left from the Heisei Era will disappear. They are still to be resolved by Japanese people themselves. People have expectations from Japan's new era, and we hope it will be more promising than the Heisei Era.The author is an editor at the Global Times and an observer of Japan issues. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn China to be offered Russia's 'best warplane' Su-57New Zealand Prime Minister visits ChinaIndia's nationalistic media could disrupt China-India ties Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar