Chinese media interview Kazakhstan's first President, Nursultan Nazarbayev, on Friday. Photo: Courtesy of Embassy of Kazakhstan in Beijing"The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) is a great initiative," said Kazakhstan's first President Nursultan Nazarbayev during a joint interview with the Global Times and other Chinese media on Friday.During the interview, he highly praised the China-proposed BRI, saying that the initiative has played an important role in economic integration. Nazarbayev is visiting China to attend the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation (BRF) held in Beijing from April 25 to 27. In September 2013, Chinese President Xi Jinping delivered a speech at Nazarbayev University, Kazakhstan, calling for jointly building the Silk Road Economic Belt. After about six years, Nazarbayev said the BRI has brought real benefits to his country. "Kazakhstan is a landlocked country, but our nation's products have been sold to all places in the world within the BRI framework, which has brought us huge interests," said Nazarbayev."As we can see, the BRI has had a great impact on Kazakhstan and improved the connectivity among nations," said Nazarbayev. "There are currently six railways and 11 highways passing through Kazakhstan ...Kazakhstan's new economic policies 'Nurly Zhol' (Bright Path) and China's BRI coordinate perfectly with each other," he said.Some countries, however, claim that the BRI creates a "debt trap." Nazarbayev disagreed with such accusations. "Those naysayers may be jealous," he said, noting that accusing the BRI of a "debt trap" is unreasonable because every country has the right to make its own decision.Nazarbayev also said that thanks to the construction of 55 projects between China and Kazakhstan, thousands of people in the country will find jobs. "Many countries alongside the Initiative have benefited from the BRI. The so-called debt trap does not exist at all. Criticizers do not know the real situation," he said. "Kazakhstan has been developing together with China since our nation's independence in 1991. There have been no problems, and I believe nobody would argue with that," he said.Congratulating on the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Nazarbayev wished China's further prosperity. "China has overcome many difficulties in the past 70 years and now it has made great achievements," he said."China's development has an impact on not only itself, but also on neighboring countries," Nazarbayev noted. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun