A new round of talent flows has emerged in the world amid a Cold War mentality adopted by some US politicians to crack down on Chinese high-tech companies. Well-known Chinese companies including Huawei and Tencent received more than 180,000 resumes from overseas and domestic outstanding experts at a conference focusing on promoting international exchanges of professionals. The conference was hosted by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China in Shenzhen, South China's Guangdong Province, on Sunday and Monday. China moved at a relatively sluggish pace over the past decades in opening up its vast economy to foreign professionals. In 2018, China issued 336,000 work permits to foreign nationals, pushing up the number of foreigners working in China to around 950,000. However, the number is too little for the country, which urgently needs more qualified foreign professionals to enhance the competitiveness of its high-tech sectors.One big reason behind US President Donald Trump's trade war is US concern over the rise of China's strength in science and technology. As a result, the fierce competition in global markets drives the US to impose restrictions on high-tech exports and investment to crack down on Chinese companies such as Huawei. China has to invest more in self-driven innovation, rather than acquiring technology through overseas mergers and acquisitions. However, China's internal innovation can be helped by foreign professionals. If Chinese companies invest the same sum of money to hire foreign professionals instead of promoting mergers and acquisitions in overseas markets, they can perhaps achieve better results.As China pledges to further open up its economy to the outside world, one priority should be foreign professionals. The country has to open up its social resources, such as the education and healthcare systems, to foreign workers and their family members, offering equal treatment to Chinese and foreign professionals. Suitable policies can be launched first in Shanghai and the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area. If China wants to make the area a new Silicon Valley-type technology and innovation hub in a technological cold war with the US, it has to be made into an international professionals hub first. While many have been focusing on attracting outstanding professionals from the US and European countries, China should not ignore talent in some developing countries, especially India, where average wages for professionals are relatively low.Decades ago, Qian Xuesen, a brilliant Chinese-born rocket scientist who led China's space and rocketry programs, abandoned his high salary and comfortable life in the US to return to China. Beijing has long relied on Chinese-born professionals to make major breakthroughs in cutting-edge technology, but China needs to change its thinking. In Qian's time, China had more patriotism than economic or technical resources. But as China's  economic strength grows, the country needs to make itself an attractive destination for global talent.The author is a reporter with the Global Times. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandasSeeing the future