On April 25, North Korean leader Kim Jong-un and Russian President Vladimir Putin finally met for the first time in Vladivostok, Russia. What happened in this one-day meeting was significant but riddled with an amusing puzzle. Kim's highly-expected first visit to Russia was not without unexpected hiccups. According to media reports, Putin skipped a scheduled dinner on April 24 and continued with his well-known practice of arriving late for his meeting with Kim on April 25, the welcoming ceremony had to be canceled. When his distinguished guests were still in Vladivostok, Putin left for Beijing to attend the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. Kim cancelled a slew of activities on April 26, including a visit to the Oceanarium, the headquarters of Russia's Pacific Navy fleet. The simplified protocol, unexpected cancellations and late arrival were so stark that we are tempted to speculate if the uneasy calm had undercurrents of some deep-seated disagreements between the two leaders.However, Putin and Kim shared chemistry between them. They shared the same affection for swords and exchanged gifts of traditional weapons. Kim presented Putin a Korean sword, saying it "represents my soul and the soul of our people, who support you." Their one-on-one meeting, which lasted nearly two hours, twice as long as the 50 minutes mentioned in the schedule, went well. Putin said Kim is quite an open person and speaks freely.I tend to believe, as pragmatic leaders, Putin and Kim were more likely to put substance before protocol and symbolism. When it comes to substance, both sides have achieved a number of positive results. First of all, Kim finally fulfilled a long-overdue commitment to visit Russia, which has been maintaining friendly relations with North Korea for a long time. Since March 2018, Kim has met Chinese President Xi Jinping four times, South Korea President Moon Jae-in three times, US President Donald Trump two times and Singapore Prime Minister and Vietnamese President once. Putin was left out of Kim's summit diplomacy. Never-ending speculation about his imminent visit to Russia peaked when Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov personally extended Putin's invitation to Kim. Many analysts believe that Kim might again visit Vladivostok in September to meet Putin on the sidelines of the Eastern Economic Forum. By showing up in Vladivostok, Kim effectively let the dust settle. Second, Kim and Trump agreed on denuclearization and associated issues. According to North Korea's official report, in the two-hour-long one-on-one talk, Kim and Putin held in-depth discussions to promote strategic communication and tactical collaboration over the security situation on the Korean Peninsula. Putin claimed to be satisfied with his conversation with Kim. With encouragement from Kim, Putin may play an active role in serving as an interlocutor between Trump and Kim.   Third, Kim and Putin not only built a personal rapport but also helped open a new chapter in bilateral relations. Traditionally, North Korea had very close relations with the Soviet Union, as Kim claimed, "The people of the two countries who share a valuable friendship that was created and strengthened while overcoming every hardship and challenge thrown to us by history." Nonetheless, relations became significantly estranged in the wake of the Soviet Union's disintegration. Even though Putin himself visited Pyongyang in 2000 with the aim to reclaim Russia's influence in North Korea, the development of relations had been hindered by North Korea's nuclear and missile ambitions. In 2012, Russia officially cancelled 90 percent of North Korea's debt and planned to expand its trade with the country to $1 billion by 2020. Unfortunately, as more sanctions against North Korea were introduced by the UN Security Council, their trade plunged to about $34 million, a 56 percent decrease from 2017. The leaders should explore a way to reverse the trade downturn and expand legitimate economic cooperation not banned by the UN Security Council. They might agree to find a way to handle the issue of North Korean workers in the Far East region. According to UN sanctions, all the workers must return home by the end of this year. Also, Putin might agree to offer more humanitarian assistance to North Korea, including food and medicine.  Due to time constraints, Kim and Putin could not have in-depth discussions on all the important issues, but they kicked off with a good start on personal and state-to-state relations. Even though given the current UN sanctions against North Korea, Russia has very limited maneuvering space to offer any significant economic help to Pyongyang, we have reasons to believe their high-level mutual visits, and bilateral economic cooperation will increase in the future, and Russia is poised to play an active role on the Korean Peninsula.The author is associate professor, School of International Studies, Renmin University of China; senior researcher, Pangoal Institute. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun