C.C. Tsai Photo: Courtesy of Liu Jirui

Self-portrait by C.C. Tsai Photo: Courtesy of Liu JiruiFor many young Chinese, 1 am is time for bed after a day of hard work and signing off the web, but for 71-year-old Chinese cartoonist C.C. Tsai, it is time to get up and start a productive new day, a habit he has insisted on for decades.He first makes a cup of coffee and stands in front of the window to look at the sky and think about subjects like physics, math and life for half an hour. Then, he moves on to bury himself in designs and drafts for the rest of the day."I work 365 days a year, 18 hours a day, but at the same time I am not working at all because I am just enjoying what I am doing," Tsai said. Determined to earn a living through drawing since he was 4 years old, Tsai rose to fame during his 30s and 40s, during which time his comics became the three top bestsellers in Taiwan. He is most famous for his comic adaptations of Chinese classics, such as Laozi Speaks and Confucius Speaks, which inspired generations of young Chinese to read the two sages' original works.He is a good storyteller and imparter of wisdom, and not only in comic form. At an event promoting the two new English versions of his comic books held in Beijing on April 20, what readers were most curious about was Tsai's philosophy on life and how he attained peace of mind.  Influential cartoonistWhen Liu Xin, a 48-year-old human resource director in the finance and insurance industry, heard that his favorite cartoonist was coming to Beijing, he excitedly grabbed the illustrator's comic books that he bought in college and headed to the event. "I like Tsai's comics very much. First, they are interesting and well-drawn. What makes them special is the way Tsai makes Chinese classics approachable for readers who don't know much about classical Chinese or Chinese philosophy," Liu said.The new English versions of Tsai's The Analects and The Art of War were published by Princeton University Press, which is also going to publish the cartoonist's The Way of Nature in June. Li Lingxi, Chief Representative of Princeton University Press China Office told the Global Times that they chose Tsai's comics because the non-profit publisher appreciates how they promote Chinese philosophy in a vivid and accessible way. The publisher received many inquiries from parents who think the combination of ancient Chinese, English and comics is a great way to educate young children. Liu also told the Global Times that he likes the books because he can use the English expressions inside them and they make introducing authentic Chinese culture to his foreign friends far easier. Freedom to grow"My ultimate goal in life is to pursue the utmost freedom instead of fame or money," Tsai said. He noted that he is proud he can still be satisfied with a material life that is just as simple as when he was a four-year-old in rural Taiwan. After establishing himself as a cartoonist, he followed his heart to explore physics, which he spent the next decade studying. His ambitions led him to draw cartoons about calculus and Einstein's theory of relativity, which he set out to publish. There is a Chinese idiom "Even though one has reached the top of a 100-foot pole, one should still strive to take a step further." "How can a person still improve when he or she is at the top?" Tsai asked at the event. He revealed that his answer has been to throw away past glories and challenge himself over and over again by starting over from scratch. For instance, his studies in physics and math, fields he didn't specialize in. Tsai's early determination to make a living as a cartoonist has amazed many people who are having a difficult time figuring out what they themselves want to do in life. Tsai said he thinks everyone should work to discover their strengths and then work to polish their talents until they are the best in their chosen field. He shared with readers that it benefited him greatly to grow up in a family environment that fostered self-awareness and independence. In his family, he was given the freedom to put his ideas and thoughts into practice instead of having to ask for permission first. Speaking more passionately than he had during the entire event, he noted that he gave his daughter the same freedom, saying that he feels parents should support their children more frankly and sincerely. During the event, Tsai cited a famous story:A disciple asked Master Dazhuhuihai, "How large is wisdom?" "Boundless," answered the master. "How small is wisdom?" asked the disciple. "Shapeless and imperceptible," Dazhuhuihai answered. Tsai said that in his opinion, this is the perfect description of how anything can be expressed in comics.Newspaper headline: ‘Shapeless and imperceptible’ Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun