Illustrations: Peter C. Espina/GTI have been out of luck recently. The anxiety and fear due to a new work environment have almost driven me crazy. After unloading myself to my friends, I got a wacky advice from one, "Why not try the fortune teller?" They work online now, maybe they can offer you some clues."I was astonished that my friend, a graduate of China's most prestigious university, would be so "superstitious." But her words sparked my curiosity. I finally decided to give it a go.After keying in "fortunetelling" in the search box on Taobao, hundreds of results popped up.The online fortune tellers offer services ranging from predictions of financial situation, career and marriage to assistance in finding lost property, with a price range of 30 to 1000 yuan ($5-$150).I clicked on the top-selling one with almost 5,000 deals per month, paid 50 yuan ($7.5).A self-proclaimed soothsayer soon befriended me on WeChat, "Tell me your name, gender, birthday, place of birth, city you are living in, and the industry you working in. This is all the information I need." After getting my answers, he started his analysis."You were born in the year of the dog, unfortunately, bad luck will hit you this year. Your fortune will not shine until 2022."He spoke slowly, conforming to the stereotype fortune teller they show in Chinese costume dramas. I even portrayed him in my mind as a raw-boned old man with dark glasses and long beard.He continued, interrupting my fantasy, "Working in the media industry is good for you now, but you are destined to start your own business in design and planning some years later."I got zapped, "But I'm completely a novice in the domain of design, how could I?"He replied without a glint of hesitation, "No worries, you will be the boss, and the boss doesn't need to know everything about his business.""And how can I cope with the tough years before 2022?" I asked."You may get unexpected help - that's what I read from your natal chart. But if you pay some extra money, I can tell you the secret of going about it."A scam - I realized, immediately deleting him from my WeChat contacts.Why are Chinese people fond of soothsayers, the experience made me wonder.Reading the future in China certainly has its importance.Most of us are afraid of change. Chinese have been striving for stability since the agrarian age. As the world changes rapidly with risks all around us, we tend to look for ways to maintain this stability. Among all approaches, fortunetelling is relatively easy to access for everyone regardless of education level and financial capacity. So a great many Chinese people prefer to turn to fortunetellers when in crisis.Sometimes people may not hope to get something useful from fortunetelling, but only seek comfort.For instance, when we are helpless and our hands tied, we tend to blame everything on fate thanks to fortunetelling. This takes the pressure off to some extent.However, it is this mind-set that some so-called fortune tellers take advantage of. They fleece people in the name of predicting the future.These years, fortunetellers have kept pace with the times and started business online, making customers even more vulnerable to their shady tricks. We cannot really criticize those who turn to fortunetelling for seeking psychological comfort, including me. Nonetheless, as customers, we need to be wiser to avoid falling into snares. It is not worth the candle to listen to comforting words for a significant amount of money. Online shopping platforms and regulatory authorities should also rein in online fortunetelling.After the experience, I realized that destiny is in my own hands. Rather than asking for someone who can "see the future," I should not give up my endeavors. The author is a reporter with the Global Times. yanyunming@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandasSeeing the future