Illustrations: Peter C. Espina/GTDid you ever have a crush on a celebrity, whom you almost worship as your idol, though he or she doesn't even know your name? If so, have you done crazy things for them such as waiting at the airport all night long and spending huge sums of money to support them? Such fangirls and fanboys remind people of passionate youthfulness. Sometimes, however, these crazy fans can create extensive trouble! A crush of hundreds of K-pop fans broke a glass barrier as they thronged a moving walkway last weekend at Shanghai Hongqiao International Airport, only for a glimpse of their beloved idols. Some people even compared the incident to China's annual Spring Festival travel rush (Chunyun). These unruly fans who caused total chaos at the airport ignited heated criticism on China's Weibo. A Chinese netizen questioned: "Why are fans so crazy these days? Don't they have even a tiny sense of social responsibility?"In fact, this is not the first time that drooling admirers have gone berserk in China. In 2015, fans smashed a glass guardrail at the Hangzhou Xiaoshan International Airport in Hangzhou City, East China's Zhejiang Province. Many passersby were injured, with bleeding wounds. A flight was delayed at the Beijing Capital International Airport in 2018 as a group of K-pop fans bought expensive first-class tickets only to see their idols. After meeting them on the flight, these masters of adulation demanded to leave the plane before it took off, delaying the flight by over one hour. Among these seemingly crazy fans, I believe there are true admirers and fake ones. One of my friends, a loyal K-pop fangirl, told me that many teen idols' management companies would hire "fake fans" to throng the airport, trying to attract more passersby's attention and put up a show of popularity. This is total manipulation of the "vanity fair."As for those true fans, I tried hard to understand their wayward behavior. That friend of mine, for example, would spend hundreds of dollars only to make her idol become more popular on Weibo. If not occupied, she could spend all day on her smart phone: Collecting her idol's photos, sending private Weibo messages which her idol may never read, gossiping with other fans online, and most importantly, keeping a close eye on her idol's ranking on Weibo's popularity list. Her frequent wait at the airport would sometimes be all night long, even though she had booked a nearby hotel. I tried to understand but failed. I believe my friend's love for her idol has already affected her daily life. She has graduated, but doesn't have a job, which means she is using her parents' money to support her idol. She would not listen to me, as she is badly smitten. Likewise, many fans in China still behave like adolescents. They should learn to be more responsible to their families and themselves.And if they cannot even shoulder the responsibility to themselves, how can they have any social responsibility? A little rationality is never too much. It is understandable that for some crazy fans, idols represent hope, happiness and almost everything beautiful in the world. But if these fans' love for their shining idols only affects their normal life, leads to splurging and even becomes a burden on society, how is it beautiful anymore? The author is a reporter with the Global Times. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun