Photo: ICReported news of PepsiCo's proposed price hike for its Lay's potato chips and Cheetos puffs has made millions of Chinese consumers frown, some lamenting increased costs for the snacks as life and work pressure continue to mount in China.The news of the Lay's potato chips price hike garnered 260 million reads and 320,000 discussions on Sina Weibo in a matter of days after media reports claiming PepsiCo has informed its retail partners about the price hike, due in May. The company reportedly said the price rises were due to rising costs for sugar, packaging and labor.Many netizens expressed regret toward the news, with some saying they plan to switch to other brands and others moving to hoard some of the chips before the reported May price hike. Many said chips are becoming a luxury to them and suggested PepsiCo should choose an indirect hike such as the reducing net weights per package rather than direct price hikes. "Like tissues, potato chips are a daily necessity to me. They help me to reduce pressure. Lay's price hike is a blow to me, as I already face the pressure of housing mortgage loan payments and increasingly long working hours," a Beijing-based white-collar worker surnamed Shen told the Global Times on Sunday. Work and life balance became a hotly debated topic in recent weeks after some internet tycoons voiced their support for the "996" overtime culture.PepsiCo's proposed price hikes come as a number of daily foods in the fast-moving consumer goods category hiked prices in 2018, including beer, instant noodles, coffee, and preserved pickles.  Yan Qiang, an observer of the food industry, said for foods like chips, most consumers will likely continue to buy them."PepsiCo must have factored in its leading position in the market to make the decision on price hikes. Due to the low value of a single package of potato chips, a small hike will be translated into a decent rise in margins," Yan said.Discussion may not lead to action.Zhu Danpeng, a Guangzhou-based food industry analyst, told the Global Times Sunday that the new generation of Chinese consumers is not price sensitive."I doubt Lay's sales will be affected at all. The new consumers care about sensation. They don't care much about other matters. They buy what they like," Zhu noted.NASDAQ-listed PepsiCo Inc reported on April 17 results net revenue growth of 2.6 percent year-on-year for the first quarter of 2019. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas