Photo: Li Hao/GTChinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday sent a congratulatory letter to the Belt and Road News Network (BRNN) First Council Meeting, expecting the platform to further boost people-to-people exchanges and help the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) provide more substantial results for the people. Participants at the BRNN's first council meeting told the Global Times that they are inspired by the messages from Xi's letter, and stressed that the network serves as a chance to present the truth about the BRI. The meeting hosted by the People's Daily was held in Beijing on Tuesday. The council includes 40 influential media organizations from 25 countries. Xi, also the general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, said in the letter that he hopes the BRNN council members will tell the stories about the BRI in a way that could shape healthy public opinion and help the initiative yield more substantial results for people living in countries along the Belt and Road. The Belt and Road Initiative originated in China, and its opportunities and achievements belong to the world, the Chinese president said. "The letter shows China's generosity and also highlights the chances that the initiative and network provide for us," Sanjuana Martínez, director general of Mexican news agency Notimex, told the Global Times on Tuesday. "Information is power and the network could help gather more opinions and information from various sources, and we expect more exchanges and agreements to be signed under the network," she said. Participants at the first BRNN council meeting also highlighted the network's mission to present the truth about the Belt and Road Initiative."I think it's very important for media to come together to set up a platform with one voice, because the biggest problem is that the Western media has a negative perception of the BRI and creates doubts on the efficiency of projects under the BRI," Sarmad Ali, president of the Pakistan-based Jang Media Group and GEO Television Network, told the Global Times. The news network could counter such a perception and provide an objective and positive narrative so that the people of Pakistan will know the real picture. It can create a dialogue with global audiences to let people know how the BRI will change their lives, he said. Fabian Frydman, deputy general director of France newspaper La Provence, told the Global Times that not many French people really know what the initiative is, while such media exchange platforms could offer accurate information to stop "fake" news. The biggest "fake news" about the initiative or China is that the country does not want to collaborate. But this is not true. China wants to work together with others and France could also work with other countries under the initiative, he said. Mansour Abo Alazzm, managing editor of Egypt's Al-ahram Newspaper, agrees. He told the Global Times that "there's very few accurate information" about the initiative outside China because most of the information foreign countries get is from Western news media."We need to know more about China's development, social life, culture, civilization and so many other things, and we need to know them from Chinese authors and experts," he said. "Why? Because it's accurate and we want unbiased information."People's Daily and Xinhua contributed to this story Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas