The recent 21st China-EU leaders' meeting held in Brussels, which pushed back at forces of de-globalization, issued a joint statement on the same day.China and the EU have been facilitators of globalization. As two important economies in the world, deepening cooperation will play a unique role in leading globalization.In their joint statement, subjects like "both sides agree that there should not be forced transfer of technology" and "both sides will intensify the discussions with the aim of strengthening international rules on industrial subsidies" are also part of the discussion in China-US trade talks, a reminder that the EU's stances on these issues are similar to those of the US. Some analysts worry the EU's position vis-a-vis China will be Americanized, letting the question being asked: If China and the US reach a deal on the trade issues, will the EU hitchhike by making identical claims on China?Pursuing one's own interests is the key in the negotiations. Keeping in view that the talks are between two great economies, both sides will have diverse claims and will look to achieve the best possible result for themselves. The interests of the US and the EU are different. Still the bloc can use some of the potential outcomes of the China-US trade talks as reference, though it may not be in line with the EU's own interests.The China-US trade deal will be a bilateral one, based on the interests of both sides, not a multilateral agreement under the WTO framework. The EU will study the deal carefully and may make similar claims, which will be based on the bloc's self-interest. On the day the China-EU joint statement was issued, US President Donald Trump tweeted: "The World Trade Organization finds that European Union subsidies for Airbus have adversely impacted the United States, which will not put tariffs on $11 billion of EU products. The EU has taken advantage of the US on trade for many years. It will soon stop."Trump's trade war doesn't seem to discriminate among different economies. Many of Trump's moves and policies are based on the idea of "America First," which he proposed during the election campaign. In light of this strategy, there have been some strains in relations between the US and other economies. For example, while the Trump administration is engaged in a trade war with China, Washington's trade tensions with the EU and Japan are also increasing. In this context, economies such as China and the EU, which are involved in trade conflicts with the US, share common interests. They want to achieve a stable international economic environment to promote the development of their economy.Therefore, there will be much room for cooperation between China and the EU, which also stems from the economic structure and long-term economic links on both sides.In recent years, with economic development, the income of Chinese people has been increasing and China's domestic market has rapidly expanded. China has become the second largest economy in the world, making it appealing to other economies.China is the largest manufacturing economy, whose products have been exported to the rest of world; while it is also a huge market, attracting global companies' attention. The EU is not only an affluent economy but also a major manufacturing base in the world. China and the EU can cooperate in manufacturing as their huge markets are attractive to each other. Hence, there is huge potential for China and the EU to cooperate.The author is a research fellow at the Institute of World Economics and Politics of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandasSeeing the future