Chinese President Xi Jinping holds talks with Swiss Confederation President Ueli Maurer at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, April 29, 2019. (Xinhua/Li Xueren)  

Chinese President Xi Jinping holds talks with Swiss Confederation President Ueli Maurer at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, April 29, 2019. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi)  

Chinese President Xi Jinping holds a welcoming ceremony for Swiss Confederation President Ueli Maurer before their talks in Beijing, capital of China, April 29, 2019. (Xinhua/Liu Weibing)  

Chinese President Xi Jinping (L, front) holds a welcoming ceremony for Swiss Confederation President Ueli Maurer (R, front) before their talks in Beijing, capital of China, April 29, 2019. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi) Chinese President Xi Jinping held talks with Swiss Confederation President Ueli Maurer at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on Monday. Since establishing diplomatic ties nearly 70 years ago, China and Switzerland have always kept bilateral relations at the forefront of China-European relations, Xi said. He stressed that the innovative strategic partnership between the two countries is the first of its kind between China and a foreign country, and that the China-Switzerland free trade agreement also took the lead among European countries. "We shall make the joint building of the Belt and Road a new highlight for China-Switzerland cooperation," Xi added. China will continue to create an open and fair business environment for foreign-funded enterprises including Swiss companies, Xi said. The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) will vigorously promote the growth and prosperity of the global economy, Maurer said, adding that Switzerland supports the BRI and is dedicated to pushing the joint construction of the Belt and Road in Europe. Switzerland hopes to deepen cooperation with China in trade, investment and innovation under the BRI framework, and welcomes the investment of Chinese enterprises, he said, stressing that no restrictions will be imposed on Chinese firms. Xi and Maurer attended a ceremony for the signing of cooperation documents after their talks. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun