○ The largest worldwide birth defects-related, population-based study that aims to involve 500,000 pregnant women by 2020 moves to interim stage. ○ More than 70,000 expectant mothers nationwide have taken part in the project so far. ○ Researchers said strong technological means and personnel supervision will ensure the participants' privacy is protected.

A participant in the birth defects research project gives her pregnancy and personal information at the Beijing Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital. Photo: Courtesy of Yue WentaoChina's declining birth rate has made it even more necessary to ensure smooth childbirth, and conducting research into birth defects is more important than ever, said medical researchers. Realizing the significance of having healthy babies, the Chinese government has made great efforts to make prenatal examinations more widespread. Supported by the Ministry of Science and Technology, a research project on birth defects and the factors that cause them has received funding of 60 million yuan ($8.94 million). In April 2018, Chinese researchers launched a population-based study of 500,000 pregnant women across the country that aims to learn about a wider range of birth defects and the factors that cause them by establishing the first nationwide - and the largest worldwide - database of major birth defect causes. On April 10 this year, the research team held an interim meeting in Beijing to outline the progress of the project. So far, more than 70,000 expectant mothers nationwide have participated in the project, Yue Wentao, one of the key researchers and also head of the science and technology department at Beijing Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital, told the Global Times. The number of newborns in China dropped to 15.23 million in 2018, the lowest in more than half a century. Due to a gradually decreasing birth rate in China, Yue said the project faces bigger challenges while having to meet higher requirements. "With a decreasing birth rate, we should try to ensure every newborn is healthy, which makes our research into birth defects and the factors that cause them more meaningful. It's better not to have children born with defects," Yue told the Global Times. Official statistics show that around 900,000 Chinese babies were born with defects in 2012, equivalent to one born every 35 seconds, according to Xinhua News Agency reported in 2018.Since 1995, Chinese couples were required to provide results of premarital check-ups. However, this policy was abolished by the government in October 2003, partly contributing to the risk of birth defects.People suffering from infectious diseases, serious hereditary diseases and certain mental illnesses are not encouraged to get married, according to China's Marriage Law and Law of the People's Republic of China on Maternal and Infant Health Care.

A little girl whose spleen has become swollen due to Gaucher disease has to stay alone at home. Photo: Li Hao/GT Research progressThe project has already been conducted at 27 medical institutions, and will expand to six more in a total of 17 provinces, according to Yue. Although the project has so far gathered about 70,000 samples - far short of its target of 500,000 by the end of 2020 - Yue said the project has laid a solid foundation by spending a great deal of time on training medical staff. For example, it took the team half a year to input the first batch of information on 5,000 pregnant mothers, but only one month for the next 5,000. "The declining birth rate requires us to improve the quality of childbirth," Yue noted, saying the government has made many efforts to improve childbirth, including expanding regular prenatal examinations from major cities to rural parts of China. In October 2016, China issued a policy aimed at strengthening medical and healthcare services for pregnant women, specifically, optimizing the allocation of resources for mothers and babies, with an emphasis on the prevention and cure of birth defects. However, Yue said underdeveloped areas in China still have difficulties in carrying out regular prenatal examinations. Moreover, there is a huge gap between the level of diagnostic expertise in rural hospitals and medical institutions in big cities, which could be improved and standardized through participating in the research project. The Shijiazhuang Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital in North China's Hebei Province is a leading participant of the project and has contributed the data of more than 7,000 pregnant women to the research, according to a staff member at its science and education department. Approximately 32,000 babies were born in the hospital last year. "Some mothers did not know that genes are the root of birth defects or miscarriages," Doctor Sun, head of the ultrasonic test department at the hospital who asked for anonymity, told the Global Times. She said some families are unwilling to do gene tests or allow autopsies for deceased babies due to a conservative mind-set or for economic reasons, making it hard for researchers to gather such samples. 

 Mother's worriesTwo weeks ago, 31-year-old Yan Lin gave birth to a healthy baby in Xianyang, Northwest China's Shaanxi Province. As a civil servant in Xianyang Municipal Health Commission, Yan was more aware of the benefits for expectant mothers. "Xianyang provides free folic acid and vitamin B12 provided by the local governments for all women who plan for pregnancy," she said, adding the amount of folic acid provided can last almost half a year. Regarding diet during pregnancy, Yan preferred foreign snacks as she said she did not have confidence in China's food security. "During my pregnancy, all the snacks I had were imported, because they had a few short lines of ingredients. By comparison, domestic snacks have multiple lines of ingredients," she said. Moreover, she soaked all fruits and vegetables in salt water for more than an hour before eating them, in order to wash off any pesticides or additives. Chinese expectant mothers try various methods to ensure their babies are healthy, such as paying serious attention to their diet, exercising and obtaining knowledge on how to prepare to be a good mother. This has led to the emergence of a market for baby apps in China. According to the latest available data provided by China's mobile big data services provider, Jiguang, the penetration rate of baby apps reached 4.35 percent as of August 2018. The number of baby app users surpassed 47.83 million, a 53.2 percent rise year-on-year. For Yan, baby apps serve as a teacher for a first-time mother. One of the baby apps she uses can remind her to go for the necessary prenatal checkups.Many mothers are also extremely concerned about the effects of air pollution on their babies, and Yan was no exception. "The smog in Xi'an is very serious in winter. As a result, I can't go out for walks during those days. My husband and I bought an air purifier and put it in our house," she said. The national research project could probably determine the connection between the various kinds of air pollution and birth defects. "Hereditary factors and drugs are obvious factors in birth defects. However, the extent to which environmental factors, such as home environment and social mind-set, have an influence on birth defects has not been studied. Such factors will be examined in our research," Yue said. Privacy protectionExpectant mothers who participate in the research project will have their blood samples at different stages of pregnancy collected and tissue samples of children with birth defects will be collected under their informed consent. In addition, detailed personal information will also be gathered. For example, the address of a pregnant woman must be specific to a particular residential quarter, as this is relevant to the air quality in the area where she lives, which will have an influence on the research. Due to the sensitive data that the study collects, guaranteeing the mothers' privacy is a major ethical and legal issue. The research team adopts two ways to ensure data protection. "None of our systems can show patients' personal information, including their ID number, phone numbers, and hospital management numbers. Only the data management personnel have the right to see them and they have signed confidentiality agreements with the research team," Yue told the Global Times. In addition, he noted the research team will examine local hospitals' data protection work in the event of any information leaks. "We will create a sharing mechanism once we finish the study. No matter how we share our findings, it should be noted that no personal data, including the participant's age, name, ID number, the hospital she stayed in, will appear in the system," Yue said. The research has drawn attention from the international community. According to Yue, many researchers from around the world have come to seek cooperation or hold discussions. In the following months, researchers from Harvard University and a number of British universities will hold discussions on the project with the Chinese team. 
Newspaper headline: Serving the population Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandasSeeing the future