Illustrations: Peter C. Espina/GTA video showing an angry woman crying and complaining about her newly bought Mercedes car while sitting on its hood went viral online earlier this month. The woman bought the new car in late March but found it leaking oil before even driving it out the store. Frustrated by the dealership's refusal to give her a refund or replacement, she took extreme measures to safeguard her rights. The incident drew wide public attention, and the pressure of public opinion forced Mercedes-Benz to negotiate with the lady. The story ended with the woman successfully guarding her rights.It could be one of the most successful cases of a consumer demanding her rights. It's also one of a kind that made it to traditional and social media. They way she thrilled netizens was worth taking note of. After the incident, some people began to emulate the woman, trying to garner attention to safeguard rights by resorting to extreme means.Earlier this week, a lady was arrested for intentional damage to property at a real estate sales office. Outraged as her demands were not satisfied by the real estate company, she sat on the sand table for two hours, damaging the house model, repairs to which were estimated at 50,000 yuan ($7,411). Customers should protect their own rights. But if the right is demanded by causing vandalism, one should bear the legal responsibility. It is human nature to seek maximum return by exercising minimum effort. In emulating the Benz lady, many people want to take a short cut to protect their rights. The woman was arguing over what had been excluded from the contract, but did not show any inclination to seek legal recourse. She seemed hell-bent on winning with her "performance." When social media is watching over you from all sides, a controversial move may earn you some publicity, but it shouldn't be the first choice for bargaining. It is worth reflecting on what you want. Being emotional cannot be the panacea every time and may lead to unexpected legal consequences.Howsoever dramatic these events seem, they are still widely supported. Why? Many customers don't get their rights. They are vulnerable and helpless in front of big corporations. But companies tend to show more respect to customers who appeal reasonably. For each one of us, the first step is to be brave. Ultimately, the real goal should be to argue for our rights in a decent manner.The author is a public relations manager at a healthcare company. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun