The Tianlian II-01 satellite is launched by a Long March-3B carrier rocket at the Xichang Satellite Launch Center in southwest China's Sichuan Province on Sunday. China sent the new data relay satellite into orbit from the Xichang Satellite Launch Center late Sunday night. The Tianlian II-01 satellite was launched at 11:51 p.m. Beijing Time by a Long March-3B carrier rocket. As the first satellite to constitute China's second-generation data relay satellite network, the Tianlian II-01 will provide data relay, measurement and control, transmission services for manned spacecraft, satellites, carrier rockets and other non-spacecraft users. Photo:XinhuaChina on Sunday successfully launched a new-generation tracking and data relay satellite, which experts say marks one step closer to real-time communication between low and middle orbiting satellites and the ground. The Tianlian II-01 satellite was launched by a Long March-3B carrier rocket at the Xichang Satellite Launch Center in Southwest China's Sichuan Province at 11:51 pm. As the first satellite of China's second-generation data relay satellite network, the Tianlian II-01 will provide data relay, measurement and control, transmission services for manned spacecraft, satellites, carrier rockets and other non-spacecraft users, the Xinhua News Agency reported Monday. The Tianlian II-01 will join its predecessors - the Tianlian I 01-04 separately launched from 2008-16 - and form a system that can provide faster sky-based data transmission as well as more accurate measurement and control in future aerospace missions, Jiao Weixin, a space science professor at Peking University, told the Global Times on Monday.Jiao pointed out that the US is the world's first country to arrange such a data relay satellite system and complete global coverage, but as a latecomer, China has developed its technology rapidly.  The Tianlian II-01 doubles the transmission speed and can serve many more spacecraft compared with Tianlian I satellites, Pang Zhihao, a Beijing-based aerospace expert, told the Global Times on Monday.According to Pang, real-time communication between low and middle orbit spacecraft and the ground can only last for 5 minutes when the satellites are in reach of surface-based monitoring stations. The time can be extended to 50 minutes with the newly launched Tianlian II-01, he noted. Relay satellites in geostationary orbit are like monitoring stations 36,000 kilometers away in the sky. Three such satellites form a system that can maintain a stable and continuous connection with fast running low and middle orbit satellites, Pang said. With the Tianlian II-01, using such a sky-based monitoring system is cheaper than deploying a surface-based system to achieve the same coverage, said Pang, noting that they are better than using monitoring vessels, which are subject to maritime conditions.  Pang said that with relay satellites, even real-time video calls, which require higher speeds and more advanced satellites, could be possible in the future. Developed by the Chinese Academy of Space Technology (CAST), the Tianlian II-01 is based on the DFH-4 satellite platform while Tianlian I satellites are based on the DFH-3.  The DFH-4 has higher power and a 600-kilogram payload capacity compared to the previous generation's 230 kilograms, and an extended service life of 15 years while the DFH-3's was eight years, according to CAST's website. China to be offered Russia's 'best warplane' Su-57New Zealand Prime Minister visits ChinaIndia's nationalistic media could disrupt China-India ties Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar