Panda Canyon at the San Diego Zoo Photo: Wang RujunA special ceremony was held at San Diego Zoo Saturday, April 6, kicking off a three-week-long farewell celebration for 27-year-old female giant panda Bai Yun and her 6-year-old son Xiao Liwu, who will be repatriated to China this spring in line with the Zoo's conservation loan agreement with the People's Republic of China.San Diego Zoo Global officials, China's Consul General in Los Angeles Zhang Ping and invited guests gathered to commemorate the successful end of the zoo's current giant panda research program, and the beginning of its new era of panda conservation."The San Diego Zoo was honored to be chosen by conservationists in China to work with them to develop a new model for species conservation," said Douglas G. Myers, president/CEO, San Diego Zoo Global."The panda program we began together demonstrates how powerful these collaborative efforts can be. We are extremely grateful to China for sharing the pandas with us and offering us the chance to serve this species in a leadership role."

Panda Canyon at the San Diego Zoo Photos: Wang RujunBai Yun and Xiao Liwu's departure follows that of giant panda patriarch Gao Gao, who was repatriated last October and it marks a major change in the mission of San Diego Zoo Global's 25-year giant panda conservation program.Over the past two decades, conservation scientists have been able to raise awareness of the plight of pandas in their native habitat. Bai Yun, Gao Gao and Bai Yun's cubs, including her sixth cub Xiao Liwu, helped scientists learn a great deal about panda behavior, pregnancy, births, and maternal and geriatric care. This knowledge has enabled them to provide necessary help to boost giant pandas' wild population in China to more than 2,000. "Although we are sad to see these pandas go, we have great hopes for the future," said Shawn Dixon, chief operating officer, San Diego Zoo Global. "Working with our colleagues in China, San Diego Zoo Global is ready to make a commitment for the next stage of our panda program."Zoo guests can continue to visit Bai Yun and Xiao Liwu at their home in Panda Canyon until April 27. Details of the panda celebration that will occur for a couple of weeks in April will be shared as they are developed.

Giant panda Bai Yun relaxing at the San Diego Zoo Photo: Wang RujunThe public is invited to show appreciation for giant pandas in many ways. San Diego Zoo visitors can purchase a commemorative bell from the panda shop or choose a free tag to hang on the giant panda friendship wall, located across from the giant panda research station in Panda Canyon. On social media, panda fans are encouraged to share their memories and hopes for the future of the species, using #pandas4ever.The San Diego Zoo is globally recognized and is a San Diego icon, hosting more than 4 million guests each year.Visitors can watch penguins and sharks swim, observe the behavior of century-old Galápagos tortoises, enjoy the beauty of exotic orchids, marvel at the playful nature of giant pandas, explore walk-through aviaries filled with the songs and colors of rare birds, and appreciate the power of leopards and jaguars. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas