Representatives of eight Latin American countries came together in the city of Santiago, Chile on March 22 to sign a document proposing the creation of a regional forum called Prosur. Present at the meeting were presidents and representatives from Chile, Colombia, Brazil, Peru, Ecuador, Argentina, Paraguay and Guyana, according to The Santiago Times. Other countries such as Bolivia, Uruguay and Suriname sent observers, but did not sign the proposal. Some countries were excluded from the meeting.Although Chilean President Sebastian Piñera said "we want it to be a forum without ideologies," the fact is that both the summit and the declaration have been interpreted in political terms. It is believed that the summit is a response of the new regional leaders, generally aligned with conservative forces, to the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR), an organization for regional integration founded in 2008, when the presidents of the main South American countries came from center-left or progressive parties. In this sense, the aim of the meeting held in Chile was to mark, at least symbolically, a change of epoch that would be characterized by the rise of right-wing political forces, as opposed to the progressive governments that dominated the region during the early years of the new millennium. However, doubts remain regarding the strength and viability of the political tendencies currently prevailing in the region.In the first place, it is necessary to understand that the economic conditions that gave rise to UNASUR years ago were very different from the current ones. During the first decade of the new millennium, a large part of the region was going through a period of high economic growth in a favorable global context, characterized by high prices of exports and abundant liquidity. Currently, a significant part of the countries in the region, such as Brazil and Argentina, are facing low growth, bordering on recession. Brazil's economy has barely grown 1.1 percent in the last two years. Argentina is caught in a deep economic recession with its GDP shrinking 2.5 percent in 2018. In this sense, it seems that several of the new right-wing governments have not yet been able to consolidate objective economic results. At the same time, it is possible to observe clear differences in the political positions of the conservatives, particularly the ultra-conservative vision of Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro. In fact, the day after the summit, Piñera had to publicly distance himself from Bolsonaro's remarks supporting past Latin American dictatorships. Piñera told journalists that he does not agree with these statements, which he defined as "tremendously unhappy." Finally, it is worth asking: What is the need for a new regional institution? Although UNASUR was formed by center-left governments, it included representatives of diverse political forces, such as then Colombian president Alvaro Uribe. UNASUR achieved a considerable degree of institutionalization through its various summits and the creation of several regional councils in areas such as infrastructure, education and foreign relations. Creating a fresh institution instead of taking ahead the work of one in existence is bound to give rise to problems due to poor institutionalization and short-sighted political vision. Despite being created by left-wing governments, nothing prevented UNASUR from operating under a different political orientation through the same institutional framework, as is the case with most successful regional organizations around the world.The right-wing governments that have recently come to power in South America have risen on the back of a promise of "the new politics." It would be important for them to start meeting those promises by rejecting practices that have historically been deeply harmful to regional integration. The author is a PhD candidate in International Politics at Fudan University. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn China to be offered Russia's 'best warplane' Su-57New Zealand Prime Minister visits ChinaIndia's nationalistic media could disrupt China-India ties Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar