A mother holds a flag-waving child as people from the Russian ethnic group gather to celebrate the Christian Orthodox Easter in Enhe township, Ergun city, in North China's Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region on Sunday. (Photo: Shan Jie/GT)The Russian ethnic group in North China's Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region celebrated the Christian Orthodox Easter on Sunday, with a local priest presiding over his first Easter ceremony after he was ordained last year.About 1000 local residents and tourists gathered in the main square of Enhe township in Ergun city, which borders Russia, on Sunday morning to celebrate the traditional festival.  Local residents performed Russian dances and songs. They also held a competition to make "xleb," or Russian bread.

China's Russian ethnic people dance and sing to celebrate Pascha festival (Orthodox Easter) with visitors in Ergun of North #China's Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region on Sunday. (Photos: Shan Jie/GT)Starting Sunday, the celebration of Orthodox Easter will last for seven days in the region.In the run up to the festival, local residents colored eggs and made kulich, a cylinder-shape bread baked especially for Orthodox Easter, which is topped with white icing and decorated with flowers. At midnight on Saturday, some 80 Orthodox Christians flocked to the only Orthodox church in Ergun for the three-hour Easter ceremony, led by local priest Sun Ming. It was Sun's first Easter ceremony after he was ordained in St. Petersburg in November 2018, as well as the first one with a priest in the region in about six decades."The ceremony went pretty well," said Sun. "Many people heard there was a formal Easter ceremony and traveled to the church from towns and villages."Sun is China's second Orthodox priest in 60 years, after Yu Shi in Harbin, Northeast China's Heilongjiang Province was ordained in 2015.China's Russian ethnic minority group numbers about 15,000, the Xinhua News Agency reported. Enhe is the only Russian ethnic autonomous town in the country.There are 15,000 Orthodox Christians in China today, said a Russian Orthodox Church report. Chinese scholars believe there are probably a few thousand.Newspaper headline: Priest celebrates Christian Orthodox Easter in ethnic Russian enclave Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun