Two starkly different stories appeared among the tech news headlines in recent weeks. Last week, Intel abruptly announced it is giving up its 5G modem development. And on Monday, Huawei launched the world's first 5G communications module for vehicles, making a formal bid to become a key supplier for self-driving autos. Based on these new MH5000 chips, "Huawei has developed the world's first 5G car module with high speed and high quality," the company said in a statement. English readers engaged in heated debate over these two stories. Some openly mocked US President Donald Trump's spoken ambitions to position the US as the frontrunner in the 5G contest. Others heralded China's un-trumpeted but steadfast efforts in exploring the new-generation superfast wireless technology. By all metrics, Huawei is the global leader in 5G research and development, 5G network rollout, 5G device shipments and, increasingly, 5G penetration into home appliances like televisions and now vehicles. It seems that Huawei's globally leading ICT (information and communication technology) solutions, which often combine state-of-the-art hardware with the most innovative software, are growing even more solid. Despite pressure from North America, Huawei reported a staggering 39 percent jump in business revenue in the first three months this year.At the same time, the company has now proved to the world that it is increasingly able to brush aside intentional US obstruction and ill-willed assault. For many years, the US government has barred Huawei equipment and devices from entering its market, and now, its dissuasion for its allies to block Huawei technology is becoming more intense. As a matter of fact, Huawei's technological prowess is embedded with its distinctive corporate structure, and its innovative gene has endowed it with formidable competitiveness in the marketplace. Of Huawei's 200,000 or so employees, about half of them own company shares, with the founder and CEO Ren Zhengfei owning only 1.3 percent. The highly dispersed and equitable distribution of Huawei's shares means the tech giant is owned by about 90,000 of its employees, who will give their best efforts to make Huawei a success. No doubt these dedicated people will be able to overcome any obstacles the US puts before them.As more governments in Asia, Africa, South America and Europe decide to import and deploy Huawei's advanced 5G wireless gear, and global customers form miles-long queues to buy Huawei's 5G smartphones, few would doubt the company's bright future. The author is an editor with the Global Times. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas