Emirates Fifteen years ago, Emirates became the first Middle Eastern airline to launch a direct passenger service between the region and the Chinese mainland. In celebration of the milestone, the airline is offering up to 15 percent off on fares.Passengers travelling in economy class can enjoy attractive fares starting from 4,015 yuan ($599.58) to selected destinations in Emirates' global network, while fares for business class start from 17,215 yuan. All fares are for round-trip and are inclusive of tax and fuel charges. Departing from Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, passengers can book these special fares from now until April 30 and plan trips between May 1 and December 31. HoneywellHoneywell has been selected by Hong Kong-based HK Bellawings Jet to supply GoDirect Cabin connectivity applications for the company's growing aircraft fleet.The company will use GoDirect Cabin to help manage passenger data consumption during flight to better control overhead costs associated with in-flight connectivity. By using GoDirect data control, a service included with GoDirect Cabin, operators can save up to $100,000 per year per aircraft on data costs, depending on the activity of their passengers.  FinnairFinnair has extended its seasonal Guangzhou route to year-round operation and will operate between Helsinki and Guangzhou with two weekly frequencies during the 2019-2020 winter season.Finnair launched its Guangzhou route as a summer route in 2016, and as of April 23 will serve the route via its new Airbus A350 aircraft, adding both passenger and cargo capacity to the route.  Finnair will also move to the new Terminal 2 in Guangzhou.   Hainan AirlinesHainan Airlines said recently that it will open a direct flight from Beijing to Oslo in Norway on May 15. This the first direct flight to Norway from China, and it is the 9th European direct route opened by the carrier starting from Beijing.It will operate three flights per week on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays with an A330. Air China Air China on Wednesday received approval to launch a long-haul route from Shanghai to London, and to permit the carrier to compete with China Eastern Airlines, as Beijing eased a decade-old "one route, one airline" policy, according to Reuters.Previously, Shanghai-headquartered China Eastern Airlines was the only Chinese carrier on the route. China's aviation regulator said last year it would ease the policy, which had been in place since 2009. It had been aimed at preventing the country's mostly state-backed airlines from competing too aggressively against each other on long-haul routes that were hard to profit from.China Eastern China Eastern Airlines said spring recruitment of cabin crew has closed for its Beijing branch. The company said about 4,000 people registered online, and only 200 will advance to the second round.Those who will move to the next round of recruitment will be tested on their spoken English and computer skills, among other exams. The recruitment test for aviation safety officers has also added physical fitness tests. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas