People visit a ship in the Chinese Navy Museum in Qingdao, East China's Shandong Province, April 16, 2019. (Xinhua/Li Ziheng)A Singapore navy frigate arrived at Dagang port in Qingdao, East China's Shandong Province on Friday - the first foreign warship to reach the port ahead of celebrations to mark the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Liberation Army (PLA) Navy.The RSS Stalwart, one of Singapore's largest warships, arrived at 10:25 am Friday. Navy delegations from more than 60 countries and vessels from more than 10 countries were invited to participate. They will join the multinational navy celebrations from Monday to Thursday as part of PLA Navy anniversary festivities, which falls on Tuesday.The event will include a maritime parade, high-level seminars, joint military music performances, cultural and military exchanges and an open day. The RSS Stalwart, which is 114.8 meters long and 16.3 meters wide, has a displacement of 3,200 tons. It's capable of traveling up to 27 knots. Aaron Li Kun Hong is its commanding officer.The full list of foreign vessels participating in the event hasn't been officially released by the Chinese side. Media reports said the Japanese destroyer Suzutsuki, Indian destroyer Kolkata, Philippine amphibious landing dock Davao Del Sur, two frigates from Vietnam and Russian ships will participate in the fleet review. The review will be the largest in China since 1949. The US has decided not to send any ships, but US allies Japan and South Korea are expected to send ships and officials, the Japan Times reported.On China's official military site, an article said "the development of Chinese naval vessels represents the development of the country." "China can build many advanced surface warships because of its national strength and defense scientific research capability.""China is also paying greater attention to its maritime rights and interests. It is not hard to see an increasingly powerful Chinese navy. The fleet review in April will be a good showcase of what the country has achieved so far," the article said.During the 60th PLA Navy anniversary in 2009, 21 vessels from 14 countries participated in the parade. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas