The US presidential election is still 18 months away, but the battle has already begun. Undoubtedly, China will be an element in the race, but that's nothing new for the Chinese people. What's more alluring are the scandals and melodramatic plots that will be exposed by this political rivalry. The US media have begun to talk frantically about which Democratic candidate will take on Trump, and what re-election tactic the sitting president will use to remain in the oval office.For instance, Senator Cory Booker will run on the idea that the US needs to restore justice and fairness which the Trump administration has dismissed. Senator Amy Klobuchar's campaign said she will focus on Trump's empty promises, especially on healthcare. But these will not shake Trump's self-confidence. Not surprisingly, he criticized his Democratic challengers and said he looks forward to running against them.This is what US presidential politics is all about. When the Democrats and Republicans wrestle in a tit-for-tat race under the banner of democracy, the elections that will determine a country's future development and the public's interests are turned into a political game.Experts lament the current state of the US political party system that used to work well. Partisanship and bureaucratic fragmentation are major challenges to today's US domestic and foreign policy. While Washington still perceives foreign policy in an us-against-them fashion, much of the rest of the world does not. On the other side of the Pacific, Beijing is working, in a dedicated manner, on solving its own problems and at the same time providing global public good. The government has reduced administrative expenses to increase the welfare of the public and continued its poverty alleviation endeavor. While the new normal of slowing growth has put pressure on the country, China has sought to open new markets for its consumer goods and excess industrial capacity. The Belt and Road Initiative proposed in 2013 has served as a way for China to develop new investment opportunities, explore export markets and boost domestic consumption. Even amid pushback from US anti-globalization and anti-multilateralism force, the initiative has become a platform for international cooperation allowing each participant to have its due share of the global market. The US elections show that what Americans care most about is how to make their country greater. By labeling China as a strategic competitor, the US has resorted to a containment approach in face of a rising China. However, the strength of a country does not lie in its ability to suppress others but in its own competitiveness. This is also the decisive factor of one system's effectiveness over another. Perhaps from now on, until the Americans choose their next president, the country will be grappling with election campaigns, with no major achievements in domestic policies or diplomacy in sight. No one can predict the future policy orientation of Washington. The best option is not to predict, but just watch the drama. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun