A barista makes a cup of coffee at a Buonissimo store in Foshan, Guangdong Province, on January 15. Photo: IC 

Du Jianing attends the 2019 World Brewers Cup Finals on April 14. Photo: Courtesy of Du Jianing 

Du Jianing attends the 2019 World Brewers Cup Finals on April 14. Photo: Courtesy of Du Jianing "Welcome my dear customers. This is a picture of my coffee shop. In this beautiful place, we present the world's most exotic blends to coffee lovers in China. As a barista, I brew the coffee and introduce the flavors and stories behind them. This is why I love coffee, because it is all about sharing," said Du Jianing as she stood on stage at the 2019 World Brewers Cup (WBrC) Finals on April 14.Du later took first place at the three-day competition held in Boston, making her the first barista from the Chinese mainland to claim the championship title. Conquering fearThe preeminent international coffee competition, the WBrC highlights the craft of filter coffee brewing by hand, promoting manual coffee brewing and service excellence. The WBrC has become a significant event in the specialty coffee community, bringing competitors from around the world, like Du Jianing, together.  Working as a barista at UNiUNi Roasters and Bakery in Nanjing, capital of Jiangsu Province, Du has competed in the annual event three times. She finished 15th in 2016 and 8th in 2018.  To represent the Chinese mainland at WBrC, Du had to beat other accomplished brewers in regional contests in China to win the Chinese Brewers Cup Championship. Looking back at her previous two experiences at the WBrC, she noted that she didn't interact much with competitors from other countries. "Not only was there a language barrier, but also, I didn't feel like I was in a position to talk with other competitors, for I feared that I did not know enough and had not achieved their level," said Du humbly.Meeting top competitors from all over the world motivated Du to work hard to improve her English and brewing skills. This year, she noted some changes in herself as she took part in the competition. "I found myself talking more to other competitors, either those I've met at contests before or ones where we have followed each other on social media. During the contest this year, I feel that in addition to my improved language skills, my eagerness to communicate with other top baristas has conquered my fear," said Du.  "This is why I love coffee, because it is all about sharing," she noted, echoing her speech during her final routine. Pure serendipityAs China's coffee industry and culture continue to grow, coffee is quickly becoming a ubiquitous drink in urban areas. However, in contrast to espresso beverages, which Chinese consumers have become familiar with through stores like Starbucks, manually brewed coffee remains a niche market in the Chinese mainland. While espresso coffee can be found in nearly everywhere, you are not guaranteed to get a cup of manually brewed coffee if you walk into a coffee shop, leading it to remain relatively unknown in the mainland. "Some may learn about the manually brewed coffee from a friend. Some may happen to see and be fascinated by the way a barista brews it at the counter of a coffee house and decide to try it themselves. They then fall in love with it or hate it, but if you don't have such encounters, you will never learn about or try it," noted Han Liang, the owner of Café Clark, one of the oldest specialty coffee houses in Beijing. Not everyone's cup of coffeeOne customer came in to Han's store and ordered a hand-drip, single-origin coffee. He then sat down in the far back of the shop, while Han started the brew at the counter by breathing in the flavor of the beans before and after grinding it. After waiting for the coffee to "bloom," and several attentively timed and artistic pours, Han tasted his work to make sure he had gotten each step right. Then and only then did he bring it to the customer. However, before he even tasted it, the customer asked Han for a packet of sugar, probably because he assumed black coffee had to be bitter. "Maybe most people choose espresso beverages partially because of the milk that is in it, which is familiar to them. The various flavors that we talk about when it comes to manually brewed coffee may not be that discernible to everyone at first," explained Du. Despite the average customer's lack of appreciation for the nuances of manually brewed coffee, Du is confident in the industry's current development and potential for growth. When asked about what she most wanted people who are unfamiliar with manually brewed coffee to learn about it, Du said, "I'm not sure what to say, but if I can change a person's assumptions about coffee, that would be truly rewarding for me."Newspaper headline: ‘All about sharing’ Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun