Even as India heads into a general election, it is important to keep focus on and not lose track of how the country must shape its foreign policy over the coming five years. Suggestions, inputs, advice on these issues will be valuable to any government which comes to power. Within our larger foreign policy matrix, there is no denying the fact that India's relations with China constitute one of the most important challenges in the national security arena. Thus, even while attention is currently on the election schedule, thinkers, analysts, academicians and observers in western India have been giving a lot of thought to the next steps in India-China ties. Since these plans and ideas have been sharpened, fleshed out and given final shape through debate and discussion in the city of Pune, it would be appropriate to call it the "Pune Action Plan on India-China Relations."First, given the nature of China's polity, which is highly centralized, it will continue to remain important to drive the relationship from the top down. Therefore, we agree that there should be intense political interaction, starting with the top leadership and filtering down to the ministerial level and then senior official level. It will be essential to have an early visit to India by President Xi Jinping in the second half of 2019 to keep up the momentum from the Wuhan informal summit of April 2018 as well as to impart new impulses with the formation in office in India as a result of our elections. Second, it will be important to enhance military-to-military interaction and cooperation between India and China. Currently, the exchanges are mainly between the armies of the two countries. It is essential to expand this to the navies, which often meet on the high seas. Such exchanges should not merely be limited to study visits, attending courses in the military schools of the other side and perfunctory port calls. They need to go beyond such symbolism and aim at getting a better understanding of the doctrines, practices and assessments of the other side. Naturally, this will not be immediately possible but a start has to be made. On the border itself, there is a need for new confidence-building measures, which will aim at defusing the increasing number of incidents that have been witnessed in the recent past. Third, to address the increasingly adverse balance of trade India experiences with China, it is essential to work with the Chinese government to ensure greater market access in China for Indian pharmaceutical products, particularly our cheap formulations. Also, we must look at the "invisible" part of our balance of payments with China and make a focused effort at attracting more Chinese tourists. Marketing "Incredible India" in China will be a first step, but we shall also have to work with Chinese travel agents, the airlines which fly between our countries, the new online agencies as well as the social media to popularize India as a tourism destination.Fourth, it is important to acknowledge that China has rediscovered Bollywood. The success of relatively recent offerings such as Dangal, Secret Superstar and Hindi Medium indicates that the Chinese audience will flock to movies which have a strong theme, an excellent script and good acting. While Bollywood will continue to tap the Chinese market on its own, since the government is important in China, India should offer whatever assistance may be required by our filmmakers in marketing their ware in China. In addition to films, India's other export which is reaching out to millions of ordinary Chinese folk is yoga. We must continue to promote yoga in China and, once again, this is best done through the private sector, but the government could consider effecting policies which promote this "soft power" export. Sixth, it will be essential to engage China in the field of sports, in which they are extremely strong. While Vivo and Oppo will continue to sponsor cricket's Indian Premier League, we can encourage Chinese coaches in table tennis, gymnastics, track and field, as well as shooting, archery and swimming to come to India and train our youngsters. We shall benefit from such assistance.On global issues, India has established the International Solar Alliance (ISA) in partnership with France with its headquarters in India. China, which is an important manufacturer of solar panels and other related equipment, should join the ISA at an early date. This would be a win-win proposition for both countries and will provide an excellent example of how the two can work together in international organizations. Eighth, negotiations on the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) are now mainly between India and China. We must ensure that the RCEP has a strong commitment with respect to services and the movement of natural persons which is important for India. Ninth, it is important to understand that better relations with China do not mean we have to go slow in our relations with other countries - whether ASEAN or Australia, Japan or the US. Putting our ties with China on a firmer footing can be done simultaneously with stronger ties with other players in the region. Indian diplomacy is nimble enough to face this challenge.Looked at holistically, the Pune Action Plan provides a comprehensive methodology for the soon-to-be-elected Government of India to proceed fast forward in its relationship with China in the second half of 2019.The author is former Indian ambassador to Bhutan, Pakistan and China. He is currently a distinguished professor at Symbiosis International (Deemed University), Pune. The opinions expressed in this article are the author's own. This article first appeared in the print edition of The Indian Express on April 9, 2019 under the title "The Pune plan for China." The article has been edited for clarity and space. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar