Bakhtiyor Saidov, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Uzbekistan to China In a historically short period of time China has made impressive progress in the consistent implementation of sociopolitical and socioeconomic reforms, ensuring a high standard of living and wellbeing of the population, increasing the country's international and economic standing. Today, the development of inter-regional cooperation is one of the priorities of Uzbekistan-China relations. When President Shavkat Mirziyoyev of the Republic of Uzbekistan and Chinese President Xi Jinping met on the sidelines of the SCO summit in Qingdao, East China's Shandong Province, in 2018, special attention was paid to this issue.As a result of the great attention of the leaders of our two countries, in 2018, during mutual visits, bilateral relations and interregional relations of long-term cooperation were established between 10 regions and cities of Uzbekistan with China, which opened new horizons for a wide range of interaction, the promotion of mutual investment and trade, economic cooperation, the establishment of cultural, humanitarian and tourist exchanges, etc. The current relations between our countries have influenced almost all spheres. In addition, being an international economist, I have always been interested in China's success in becoming one of the world's trade centers and its innovative achievements.As the second largest economy in the world, China's role in the global economy is steadily growing. Thanks to the new ideas and bold decisions of the Party leadership, China was able to achieve great results.In this context, the historical significance of the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC) should be noted. It defined the strategy and plan of action for the decisive stage in achieving the noble goals - to ensure the welfare of society (common prosperity) with the nurturing of a high level of material, political and spiritual culture by world standards.In the process of realizing its goals, China is playing an increasingly significant role in international affairs and is an important engine of global economic growth, creating new opportunities for development and for other developing countries.Indeed, the large-scale reforms in Uzbekistan today have influenced all spheres of society. Adopted on February 7, 2017 by President Mirziyoyev, the "strategy of action in five priority areas of development of the Republic of Uzbekistan in 2017-21" is the first such document and is a guide to action and a development program for the country in the coming years.

A view from the city walls of Khiva in Uzbekistan Photo: IC In the process of implementing the strategy, Uzbekistan is actively studying the experience of leading countries, including China. In particular, Uzbekistan is interested in new industries, new formats in China's business model, which have become an important driving force for the Chinese economy, in technological development, market modernization and the government's efforts to develop entrepreneurship.The Chinese government has repeatedly declared that China will deepen reforms in the future and open up more widely to the world. In implementing these policies, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) has played an important role.There is no doubt that Uzbekistan's participation in the BRI is very important for the development of this initiative, as Uzbekistan since old times had an important place in strengthening interstate trade, economic and cultural ties along the Silk Road.It is noteworthy that the strategic partnership between Uzbekistan and China creates favorable conditions for the implementation of projects under the BRI. "We expect to implement in our region, where the richest natural, industrial and human resources are concentrated, major projects in the field of transport, trade, investment, energy and high technologies," President of Uzbekistan said at the first Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation in Beijing in May 2017.As the head of Uzbekistan pointed out, the second key issue is the development of a comprehensive program of action for cooperation in the creation of transport and logistics routes linking Central Asia through China and Russia with the markets of South, Southeast Asia and European countries.The world knows that Uzbekistan had been one of the centers of world civilizations since ancient times. During the years of independence, the economic and social potential of our country has increased enormously. The growth of Uzbekistan's economy shows that there is a solid macroeconomic base. Widespread conditions have been created for facilitating the activities of foreign investors. The opportunities provided strengthen the interest of foreign business people to partner with Uzbekistan.Uzbekistan supports the initiative in the fields of transport, trade, investment, energy and high-tech. Within the framework of cooperation, Uzbekistan is actively involved in the development of programs for the opening of transport and logistics routes.China has always been and remains for us a close and reliable friendly country, a time-tested partner, relations to which Uzbekistan attaches importance. At the present stage, relations between Uzbekistan and China have increased to the level of comprehensive strategic partnership. Cooperation covers all areas of politics, economy, trade, industry, construction, science, education and culture.Today, broad horizons are opening up for further expansion and strengthening of Uzbek-Chinese cooperation. A striking example is the growing interest on the business community of China in Uzbekistan. Today more than 1,000 enterprises with Chinese investment operate in the market of our country. More than 100 leading firms and companies from China opened their representative offices in Tashkent for a close study of the Uzbek market.China is actively participating in the implementation of programs to modernize and diversify the economy of Uzbekistan, primarily the development of industries based on high-tech. Chinese business entities are involved in the construction of many new industrial enterprises, taking part in the implementation of large and small projects in Uzbekistan. Year after year, the volume of bilateral trade is increasing. The Chinese market is in great demand for various products made in Uzbekistan, as we also saw during the first China International Import Expo in November of last year. The Uzbek side expects to achieve significant progress in the export of fruits and vegetables and other products to China in the coming years. We also see significant opportunities to attract Chinese tourists to the country.The author is Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary  of the Republic of Uzbekistan to China. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas