Land of the Lustrous art exhibition at the UCCA Dune in Hebei Province Photo: Courtesy of UCCA

Land of the Lustrous curator Yang Zi (left) speaks at a media event for the exhibition on Saturday. Photo: Courtesy of UCCA  

Something in the Air by Zhao Yao Photo: Courtesy of UCCAThe opening ceremony of art exhibition Land of the Lustrous kicked off at the UCCA Dune in Hebei Province's Aranya Gold Cost Community on Saturday. The exhibition features works by 10 domestic and foreign artists who are all connected by a single medium: stone. These artists seek to judge this silent material from the perspective of the contemporary era.Under the dunesThe UCCA Center for Contemporary Art  is one of China's leading independent institution of contemporary art. UCCA's main exhibition hall is located at the 798 Art Zone in Beijing, a major hub for artists in the capital that was converted from an old industrial area built in the 1950s. UCCA has been committed to promoting China's deeper participation in global dialogue through contemporary art.The UCCA Dune is a unique exhibition hall buried under the sand of the Bohai seacoast, about 300 kilometers southeast from Beijing. Opened in October 2018, the UCCA Dune was designed by Li Hu, the founder of OPEN Architect, and built with the support of UCCA's strategic partner Aranya. One of the newest members to UCCA's museums, the UCCA Dune focuses on exhibitions related to the local the environment and form and inner space. The exhibition area is connected by a series of caves and cell-like halls; the only sources of light for the exhibition halls are the skylights and the reflective surface of the white walls. The exhibition was specifically designed to fit with this spatial structure. The exhibition also extends to a number of outdoor display areas near the coast.  The living stonesWang Sishun is an artist who believes that "everything has a spirit," including stones. His aluminum sculpture Apocalypse 16.9.1 gives stones he picked up in the wilds of nature interesting personalities that contrast with their cold and hard surfaces. In the sculpture, three stones stand in a line as if they are participating in a serious religious ritual.The works by Zhao Yao, Lin Xue and Miguel Angel Ríos come alive through the illustration of details, positions and movements. For Something in the Air, Zhao has placed a giant red mani stone, a stone carved with Buddhist mantras using Tibetan script, on the coast between the UCCA Dune and the Bohai Sea. During the day it looks like a cell absorbing bright sunlight. In her paintings, Lin transforms the pits of the fruits she picked while hiking in the mountains into floating planets or organic living systems. While the others dabble in sculpture or painting, Ríos has brought a video work, which shows numerous stone balls pouring from the top of a mountain like a heard of energetic African antelope hopping down a steep slope. Su-Mei Tse's Stone Collection delves into the stone collections of ancient Chinese scholars, who used to decorate their outdoor gardens with unique looking natural stones. Tse's work demonstrates their yearning to create a beautiful landscape to give these stones a reason to exist. Artist Li Weiyi moves even further from artistic tradition by making use of high technology. Her Cairn uses several sets of VR goggles so visitors can look inside of a stone. Symbol of cultureThe worship of the "spirit of stone" has a long history in China. Some of these stones have become symbols of Chinese culture, such as the shigandang, an ornamental stone tablet with inscriptions that was used to exorcise evil spirits, and mani stones. The myths and tales of these stone spirits provide a framework for the exhibition's works.  The nature of the exhibition means it is suitable for visitors of all ages, as each person can use their own perspective to judge the works of art. Newspaper headline: Spirit of stone Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas