Illustrations: Liu Rui/GTThanks to a hyper-connected world, finding a soul mate has increased the possibility of meeting Mr. or Ms. Right, taking some stress off the vagaries of matrimony. With dating apps doing the rounds of the cyber world like yearning teenagers seeking a date, finding a partner to tie the knot may not end with you tying yourself up in knots. How do you find your mate? Dating apps seem to be the popular choice if you look around. Two of my friends found their life partners on them. One of my friends, surnamed Song, who became a mother last month, knew her husband via a dating app. While another friend surnamed Xu, who was doing her master's in the UK, came to know a boy undertaking his PhD program in France, via another dating app. After travelling together to Paris, they fell in love and are now going steady. Currently, Xu is applying for a PhD program in France so that see can live with her boyfriend.In Chinese culture, children are always under the watchful eyes of their elders who seek to marry them off at an age considered marriagebale. Like some young people in China, Xu and Song came under parental pressure to get married as soon as possible. Going home for Chinese New Year has become a nightmare for some single youngsters. When getting together with their family and relatives to celebrate the traditional Chinese festival, they will be asked myriad questions about when and how they wish to get married. That's not all. The intrusive elders will send you plenty of photos and information about the guys they believe you will be matched with. The information they give you is really detailed and looks like a CV for job-hunting. Some of the photos are touched up and individuals they portray look like superstars. The elders are so enthusiastic that you cannot refuse their kindness. During the holiday, you will be busy with meeting these fresh guys. To avoid the haggling, some young people just choose to travel around during the Spring Festival. Others even "hire" a boyfriend or girlfriend when they arrive home, so as to escape an inquest. Song told me she had been made to meet three guys in a day during one festival! In total, she met over 30 boys introduced by her relatives, but all failed. Not finding one of her liking, she stopped meeting them. One day, Song's friend told her of a dating app. It is easy to follow, just add personal information, like gender, age etc. It will recommend persons you can chat up and meet, or you will receive messages from others, who show their interest in you. Song just decided to give it a shot, and met her husband, a bank clerk, on the way. Now they are living a happy life.In recent years, young people in China have been occupied with a busy life and have less time to make friends. The younger generation tends to have a relatively closed social circle. Getting exhausted after a day's work and regularly taking crowded public transport leaves one with hardly more energy than needed to just lie down and fiddle with the phone. The elders' idea of matching couples may be different from what young people perceive. Thanks to the internet and advance of technology, young people have more ways to be social. Dating apps tend to save time and the leg work to find a spouse or make friends. The author is a reporter with the Global Times. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun