Books translated by Dong Nan Photos: Tao Mingyang/GT   

Books translated by Dong Nan Photos: Tao Mingyang/GT If you are a big fan of rock'n'roll and want to explore beyond the music itself, Chinese translator Dong Nan has a list of books that you absolutely must read. A long-time rock'n'roll fan, Dong has translated and published 11 books related to rock music into Chinese, including No One Here Gets out Alive, the biography of The Doors lead singer Jim Morrison, and Rolling Stones guitarist Keith Richards' memoir Life. Dong's efforts have earned her the title of "model translator" in the field of rock'n'roll translation. What was once a hobby has now become her main career and rock music has become an essential part of her life. Dong first became interested in rock music while in middle school and wanted to learn more. However, there were not many books on the subject at that time. "In the era before the internet, it was very difficult to buy related books," Dong said in an interview with The Paper. Dong graduated from the China Foreign Affairs University in Beijing, one of the top universities in the country. Dong noted that she actually had little interest in her major while studying at the university. She likened her feelings at the time to those of US punk musicians such as Henry Rollins and Ian McKaye. "I was bored and angry. It felt like the world was fighting against me," Dong explained. In 2005, Dong came across the English version of No One Here Gets out Alive at the Panjiayuan Antique Market in Beijing. "I had no clue about copyrights at that time and translated that 300-page-book, which took me more than half a year," Dong said, laughing. Fortunately, while Jiangsu People's Publishing House actually owned the copyrights to the book, it hadn't found a translator. "I contacted them and they were very satisfied with my work. So, from there I went on to translate other works," Dong said.One of Dong's favorite writers is Greil Marcus, the author of many works about Nobel laureate and rock musician Bob Dylan. Dong said she found it very difficult to translate Marcus' work as his writing style is full of speculation and he likes writing very long sentences. Dong pointed out that when reading his works it is not uncommon to see only one full stop per page. "He thinks readers' knowledge of the subject is similar to his and so he doesn't accommodate readers by lowering himself to their level," Dong said. "Translating his work is very hard, but very interesting."Dong noted that she feels very fortunate, since she has a lot of translator and musician friends who can help her out when she comes across challenges that throw her for a loop. Dong also talked about many people's negative opinions about rock music and rock musicians. "I could write an essay to answer this question," Dong joked. "Basically, there are many rock musicians who live healthy lives and die like normal people, but the media likes to focus on those 'legends' of the genre. In reality, however, if we compare rock musicians and other jobs or artists such as pop singers and actors, they are not all that terrible."Dong admitted that rock music is currently undergoing a dip in popularity in China and the rest of the world. Due to this trend, Dong said she wants to use the knowledge she has gained from her translation experiences to help more rock bands in China find success. The translator added that she is relieved to see that there are people who are younger than her busily putting in effort to make rock music thrive. "At the very least, rock music will not disappear in my lifetime," Dong said with a smile.Newspaper headline: Call to arms China to be offered Russia's 'best warplane' Su-57New Zealand Prime Minister visits ChinaIndia's nationalistic media could disrupt China-India ties Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar