A Xiaobawang console Photo: IC 

Customers try out a Playstation 4 in a Sony store in Shanghai on March 23, 2015. Photo: ICOn April 18, a document on the official website of the Guangdong Provincial Department of Culture and Tourism showed that Chinese IT giant Tencent will be the official distributor of Nintendo Switch game Super Mario Bros U in the Chinese mainland. This reveal was seen by many video game fans as a strong indication that the Switch would soon be coming to retail stores in the Chinese mainland. While Chinese gamers used to have to turn to the gray market to buy consoles and games, China's ongoing reform and opening-up policy has allowed more and more gamers in recent years get their gaming fix through legal retail channels. The old limitationThe Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) first entered the Chinese mainland through Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan during the late 1980s. At that time, the per capita GDP of China was 1/73 of the US and the going rate for a NES was about 1,500 yuan ($222), or a year's salary for a normal family. This high price for just the console, along with its expensive games, meant that the NES was not able to make much headway in the mainland. However, the console was a boon for Subor Culture Development, who produced a series of cheaper consoles called Xiaobawang (Little Hegemon) that could play pirated NES games. The console was able to fly under the radar of government oversight in part because it was sold as a "study assistance device."In June 2000, then-China's Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Public Security and General Administrations of Customs introduced regulations forbidding the sale of gaming devices or the production of gaming devices for the mainland market due to worries about video game addiction among children. This regulation basically put an end to the rapid growth of the large-scale Chinese game market. However, demand among gamers still existed, and so the gray market continued to thrive by smuggling game consoles into the mainland and selling pirated games. Game onIn late 2013, rumors began circulating in overseas media that China would soon be ending its ban on gaming consoles. According to a report from Sina News from that year, PlayStation maker Sony's share prices rose 8.8 percent, hitting a new high since April 2012 and Nintendo shares rose 8.2 percent, hitting a new high since August 2011. The rumors soon turned out to be true.On January 6, 2014, the State Council officially announced that foreign-funded enterprises would be permitted to sell game devices that have been reviewed by relevant institutions, ending the 13-year ban on gaming. On September 29, 2014, Microsoft released a Chinese version of its Xbox One in the mainland market, the first game console to be sold under the new regulations. The following year, a Chinese version of Sony's Playstation 4 hit the mainland on March 30. Many popular games overseas were also released in the mainland in Chinese, giving Chinese gamers renewed confidence in their hobby. "It was not easy to buy," said Shao Ran, a master student at the Graduate School of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. He recalled that when the Playstation 4 was released in the mainland, "I wanted to buy it at the official Sony store in the mall, but they told me they had already sold out the 20 that they had in stock in just one day!" The right choice"I have to admit that I once played pirated games when I was a kid," Shao said. "Non-pirated games were too expensive, only a few people could afford them." However, Shao notes that things have changed now. Not only are players going to legitimate retailers to get new games, many are also buying the legal versions of the games they played as children. "Price is a major factor, but another important thing is an increased awareness about intellectual property," Shao said."Such as Plants vs. Zombies. It was very popular at that time, but no one paid for it. Everyone played pirated versions downloaded from the internet.""But now Plants vs. Zombies is just 12 yuan on [PC gaming platform] Steam, so why not pay for the game that made you happy?" Shao said, adding that he has bought more than 100 games on Steam, most of which are games he played at a young age. Shao also talked about the stigma around playing video games."Limiting video games for children is necessary because they can't control themselves," Shao said. "But outright banning video games is bad for both game makers and players." Newspaper headline: Changing times Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas