Participants take notes during the Belt and Road News Network (BRNN) First Council Meeting held in Beijing on Tuesday. Photo: Li HaoChinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday sent a congratulatory letter to the Belt and Road News Network (BRNN) First Council Meeting, expecting the platform to further boost people-to-people exchanges and promote the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) to provide more substantial results for the people. The meeting, hosted by the People's Daily, was held in Beijing on Tuesday. The council includes 40 influential media organizations from 25 countries. Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, said in the letter that he hopes that BRNN council members will tell stories about the BRI in a way that will shape healthy public opinion and help the initiative yield more substantial results for people living in countries along the Belt and Road. The Belt and Road Initiative originated in China, and its opportunities and achievements belong to the world, the Chinese president said. Participants at the council meeting told the Global Times that they were very inspired by the message in Xi's letter, and stressed that the network serves as a chance to present the truth about the BRI. 

Pavel Negoitsa. Photo: Li HaoPavel Negoitsa, general director of Russian newspaper Rossiyskaya Gazeta: Xi's letter shows the BRNN is certainly not temporary, but a long-term and significant cooperation platform. We look forward to working together under the platform to carry out cooperation projects, such as the special edition of Russia Beyond the Headlines, co-published by Rossiyskaya Gazeta and the Global Times.

Sanjuana Martínez. Photo: Li HaoSanjuana Martínez, director general of Mexican news agency Notimex The letter shows China's generosity and also highlights the chances that the initiative and network provide for us.Information is power and the network could help gather more opinions and information from various sources, and we expect more exchanges and agreements to be signed under the network.

Juan Varela. Photo: Li HaoJuan Varela, chief digital and business development officer of Agencia EFE in SpainI agree with President Xi's comment on the news network's role in creating a sound atmosphere for public opinion. The news network has the opportunity to make a more big deal about things that are related to innovation and interest of cooperation under the BRI as well as things with regard to what is the meaning of the BRI. When people work together we can build a big thing.Spain needs more knowledge about the initiative. People sometimes [have] fear about this kind of initiative, and when you are able to explain better how the initiative is working, what are the real economic services and innovation, people can understand better and can find opportunities to support it.

Jacqueline Lampe. Photo: Li HaoJacqueline Lampe, CEO of RNW Media in the NetherlandsPresident Xi's letter further strengthened the newly launched news network. It's a great inspiration for the news network's first council meeting as people-to-people exchange comes first.President Xi talks about collaboration, and I see that the BRNN can play a joint important role in positioning the BRI from a very neutral perspective and make sure that European people understand what the purpose is and how China can contribute to building a better world while reducing misunderstandings. Through participating in the BRNN, our media can collaborate with other media organizations, support each other and learn from each other's best practice. As RNW facilitates the voices of young people in the Netherland, Europe, Africa, Asia, Middle East and Latin America, joining the network is very important for us as it can make the voices of the young people in the countries and regions along the BRI being heard globally. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas