Illustration: Liu Rui/GT
Jingzhou, known as one of the battlefields from the The Romance of Three Kingdoms, is a third-tier city in Southern China's Hubei Province. Starbucks had yet to open a store until the beginning of 2019. The opening day was a welcoming party, and local media reported that the city's first Starbucks was "splendid." One man surnamed Wang, waited three hours so he could be the coffee shop's first customer. The story reveals how strong the market potential is for coffee in regions beyond Beijing and Shanghai. Although we're unsure the world is flat, there's no debate that China is - if there's something fancy and cool in one place, then others will want the same thing where they live, and sooner rather than later.  Starbucks is not one to move slow and opens a new store every 15 hours. However, the perception is that it is too slow and not only with their expansion efforts and but also with the long lines their customers endure just for a cup of coffee. Furthermore, it isn't exactly cheap. A cup of coffee can cost anywhere between 18 to 40 yuan. The annual disposable income of Jingzhou residents is 22,000 yuan ($3,278), which comes to 60 yuan per day. The demand has created an opportunity for a local coffee chain by the name of Luckin. Almost out of nowhere, this newcomer has already opened some 2,000 outlets across China in nearly twelve months. The coffee upstart plans to have 4,500 stores by the end of 2019 and would overtake Starbucks as the largest coffee chain in the country. How did they do it? Unlike Starbucks, the Chinese company has focused on technology to produce "instant service" with competitive prices. With a sound understanding of the arrival of a cashless society, Luckin only accepts electronic payments made with the company's specially designed app, or through WeChat. The company also offers bonus reward points for their loyal customers. Compared to Starbucks, with its long lines of impatient customers, Luckin offers door-to-door delivery and pick-up services. Starbucks is a bit conservative in their new service offerings in today's digital marketplace. "Starbucks had a weak point," said Jeffrey Towson, a professor at Peking University, while speaking with CNN, and added, "the fact they didn't have delivery is ridiculous. And their app sucked." Competition brings about low prices as well as quality coffee. Under pressure, Starbucks has teamed with Alibaba to offer delivery service. Also, they have also opened Reserve Roasteries in Shanghai and Beijing. It's impossible to foresee the outcome of the battle between Starbucks and Luckin. One likely result could see both brands growing rapidly and gaining their market share, given the potential within the Chinese market.  The number often referenced when discussing individual coffee consumption in China puts the number at three cups per person annually, versus 250 cups in the UK, and 363 in the US.  China's urbanization is ongoing and will be in the years to come. The population of the country's middle class is expected to double to 600 million in three years. China's coffee consumption trend has been in place in its bigger cities. Domestic consumers have already had their eyes on quality products. For example, figures from Alibaba platforms Taobao and T-mall show sales of coffee beans and grounds grew 60 percent faster than instant coffee year on year. While coffee capsule sales grew tenfold during this same period. China's educational system is often criticized for producing graduates incapable of innovation.  Chinese culture has been blamed for not encouraging risk-taking entrepreneurship. However, the reality we have witnessed is that as long as there is a market and competition, Chinese innovation will be present. Just as Huawei is considered China's answer to the iPhone, Luckin is easily a serious rival to Starbucks.The real winners? Hundreds of millions of coffee consumers in China. The author is a commentator on current affairs with China Radio International. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar