Competitors take part in Spartan Race’s 12-hour “Hurricane Heat” Urban Challenge. Photo: Courtesy of the Spartan Race

Chinese actress Yuan Shanshan takes part in Spartan Race’s 12-hour “Hurricane Heat” Urban Challenge. Photo: Courtesy of the Spartan Race
The 12-hour "Hurricane Heat" Urban Challenge, a part of the 2019 Spartan Race, kicked off at the Kerry Hotel in Beijing on Friday, marking the first time the race has debuted in a city's Central Business District (CBD). Originated in 2005, the Spartan Race is a long-distance race incorporating a series of obstacle courses of varying difficulty such as wall climbing, mud crawling, spear throwing and jumping through fire. Welcomed by sports lovers around the world, the race has been held in more than 30 countries including Australia, Canada and China.Differing from other Spartan Race events, the "Hurricane Heat" does not have any obstacles courses. However, this doesn't mean the race has become any easier. "There's no rest or sleep for our participants, they have to carry heavy objects for 12 hours, 12.5 kilograms for men and 7.5 kilograms for women," Zhang Haoyang, one of the organizers of the event, said at a press conference before the race.  "Stair climbing and moving heavy objects are all included, so racers will have to work as a group to overcome challenges."Although the race encourages people to push their bodies to the limit, Zhang stressed that safety is of primary importance. "We have safeguards at the venue, and an ambulance will be waiting outside just in case there are any accidents," Zhang told the Global Times.Yuan Shanshan, a popular Chinese actress, numbered among Friday's 83 participants. An exercise and outdoor sports enthusiast, Yuan was very passionate about the Spartan Race."This is my second-time attending," said Yuan at the press conference. "It is really fun to play with other people who care about living a healthy way of life.""The Spartan Race is full of obstacles, one after another, so it just like the difficulties in our lives. We have to face and overcome them. You have to deal with challenges to improve," Yuan told the Global Times.First coming to China in 2016, the Spartan Race held 20 games in five cities in the country in 2018, with about 64,700 participants and more than 100,000 people watching from the sidelines. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandasSeeing the future