Illustration: Liu Rui/GTOn March 27, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared that India had succeeded in its first anti-satellite (ASAT) missile test and shot down a low-Earth-orbit satellite at an altitude of 300 kilometers. With this, India became the fourth country after the US, Russia and China to possess ASAT capability. Media and experts across the world hold mixed views on India's ASAT test. However, except for the US, most reactions tend to be muted. The US criticized the move, saying it might spark a new arms race, which seems to be ridiculous. The US has always been carrying out ASAT tests and is now planning to form a Space Force. It is the US that is bent on creating a new arms race. According to CNN, NASA believes that India's ASAT test created at least 400 pieces of orbital debris out of which 60 fragments were large enough to be tracked, posing a risk to International Space Station (ISS) astronauts.The US and India are in strategic partnership and have signed a military agreement. India plays a key role in US' Indo-Pacific strategy. It is rare to see the US blame its strategic partner with such intensity.How powerful is India's ASAT test? Why is the US opposing it? Why did Washington show such sensitivity for the debris fragments? According to the Union of Concerned Scientists, by December 2018, there were 1,957 satellites across the world. Among them, 849 belonged to the US. At least one-third of US satellites are used for military purposes such as investigating, navigating, communicating, commanding and warning against missiles. The US satellites were crucial during the Gulf War and other regional wars, making the US increasingly dependent on them. There is no other country as reliant on satellites as the US. Hence, Washington must be capable of protecting its space assets from enemy attacks. This is consistent with US President Donald Trump's idea to create a Space Force. Therefore, the US is strongly opposed to other countries carrying out ASAT tests, in spite of itself sparing no effort in testing and developing such weapons. Only when US satellites are left in space will Washington feel very safe. This is also in line with what the US army and politicians seek.The US has carried out ASAT tests since the 1960s. Although with continued exploration and improvement, the US has reduced the number of fragments produced in space after a target is blown up, it was not so in the beginning. India has always adopted the policy - combining independent research and procurement from many countries together - when it comes to weapons. Although the US and India are partners in the Indo-Pacific strategy and have signed military agreement, Washington, which is following unilateralism, has always been uncomfortable with such a policy. India is close to a crucial general election, which is scheduled to be held from April 11 to May 19. Modi was trying to please the electorate with the satellite test. Meanwhile, he was also trying to play it safe. The test was prudent, so was Modi's speech. The so-called space war is essentially an ASAT war. Global military powers are sparing no effort to carry out ASAT tests and develop related weapons. Some experts believe there is still a gap between India's ASAT ability and its need for such weapons. They are absolutely correct. China is in a similar situation. Beijing still has a long way to go before being a great space power.The author is an expert at the Second Research Institute of China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn China to be offered Russia's 'best warplane' Su-57New Zealand Prime Minister visits ChinaIndia's nationalistic media could disrupt China-India ties Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar