A shop assistant picks up some anti-cancer medicine in a pharmacy in Zhengzhou, Henan Province in 2015. Photo: ICOne of the developers of China's first atomic bomb has said that his pension cannot cover the expensive cancer drugs he needs, sparking discussion about how to cover the high price of cancer medications for patients on lower incomes.  Yuan Gongpu, 85, who took part in 10 atom bomb tests and processed the uranium ball that is the key part of an atom bomb in 1964, recently made headlines not because of his achievements, but because he failed to pay his medical bills, the Beijing Youth Daily reported on Tuesday.Yuan was diagnosed with advanced prostate cancer in 2011 at Zhongshan Hospital Affiliated to Fudan University in Shanghai. After an operation, he needed to continue his treatment. The report said that Yuan tried several cancer drugs, but only one was effective. However, one box costs 60,000 yuan ($8,923). The drug was added to the list of China's approved medical insurance reimbursement drugs in 2017, but he still needs to find 6,000 yuan out of pocket every month.Yuan and his wife's monthly pension combined can only cover the price of one treatment. "I built atom bombs my whole life, but I never thought this would happen to me when I got old. I need drugs but I have no dignity," Yuan told the Beijing Youth Daily, as he sat clutching his certificates of merit.The report sparked discussion about the high cost of medical treatment including expensive cancer drugs in China. "If one of the developers of the atom bomb faces this problem, what about ordinary people?" wrote one Sina Weibo user.Since April 2018, China has called for measures to lower tariffs and hasten the approval of imported cancer drugs. Seventeen cancer drugs were listed for inclusion in the national medical insurance system in December 2018, and their prices were reduced by 56.7 percent on average, the Guangming Daily reported.A top doctor at a hospital in North China's Shanxi Province, surnamed Fang, told the Global Times that the government has intervened in the price control of cancer drugs, especially imported brands."But it takes a long time for most patients to be able to afford all kinds of cancer medications, as some of them are really expensive and they're not covered by medical insurance. We should give the government more time," he said. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas