Illustration: Xia Qing/GTThe recent dispute between the US and the EU over aircraft subsidies has revealed the important fact that even the US government hasn't fully exercised its own "competitive neutrality" principle.The "competitive neutrality" principle was brought up by Robert D. Hormats, under-secretary for economic, energy and agricultural affairs of the Obama administration, in 2010, when he was slamming China's "state capitalism." He claimed that the government should not give support to any company, domestic or foreign, in market competition. Regrettably, Hormats forgot how the US itself has behaved.Due to the years-long trade dispute over mutual claims of illegal subsidies to US-based Boeing and Netherlands-based Airbus, the US Trade Representative on April 8 proposed products for countermeasures in response to $11 billion in harm caused by European aircraft subsidies. The "competitive neutrality" principle disappeared when the US government was eager to back Boeing by weakening its main competitor. Of course, the EU is considering hitting back with retaliatory tariffs on $12 billion of US goods.Prior to this, the most typical example of failure by the US to implement the "competitive neutrality" principle was the case of Boeing's 737 Max. To compete with Airbus' A320neo plane, Boeing rushed to develop the 737 Max. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) delegated certification work to Boeing so as to speed up the process. However, Airbus aircraft or passenger aircraft produced in other countries must pass the FAA's strict technical certification when flying through US airspace.It is a business choice, but also a kind of competition, whether airlines buy Boeing or Airbus aircraft to fly through US airspace. The FAA as a government department has clearly violated the "competitive neutrality" principle.The Washington Post quoted Dorothy Robyn, top economic advisor to the Clinton administration, as saying that the US government usually didn't choose sides, but Boeing was one exception. In other words, for important companies, the US government doesn't implement "competitive neutrality."The US has certain rules in place that conflict with the "competitive neutrality" principle.First, buy American. According to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 signed by President Obama, any public works project funded by the new stimulus package must use steel and other manufactured goods produced in the US, with a few exceptions. Due to the provision's obvious violation of the WTO rules, the US later added that it must be applied in a manner consistent with US obligations under international agreements, which many states have failed to follow in actual implementation.Second, unilateral tariff barriers. According to the WTO provisions on anti-dumping and countervailing, when an imported product is ruled to be dumping or subsidized for lower-than-normal prices, the importing country can charge anti-dumping or countervailing duties on the particular product. However, the US hasn't complied with the rule when imposing unilateral tariffs on steel and aluminum products from abroad. With no evidence that imported steel and aluminum products were subsidized or constituted dumping, the US government imposed tariffs to raise costs for imported products in order to protect local businesses. The unilateral tariffs imposed by the Trump administration on $250 billion of Chinese products are an example of government interference in competition, because Washington has no evidence of Chinese products being dumped or subsidized. The US government artificially increased the costs of Chinese products by 10 to 25 percent to weaken their competitiveness in the US market.Third, agricultural subsidies. While the US often accuses other governments of subsidizing companies, its own practice in the agricultural sector shows what subsidies really are. The US Department of Agriculture usually determines the target prices of agricultural products prior to the actual harvest. When market prices are higher than the target levels, farmers take the revenue. When market prices are lower than the target levels, the agricultural department pays subsidies to make up for the price difference. Therefore, US agricultural products are very competitive in the international market.During the 10th WTO ministerial conference held in Nairobi, Kenya in December 2015, ministers committed to abolishing export subsidies for farm exports. The move was considered a historic achievement as it ended the biggest distortion in the market. However, the Trump administration didn't actually execute it, so the competition in the international agricultural market is still not equal and the US government has failed to maintain a neutral position.Fourth, direct administrative restrictions. According to the US-Mexico-Canada trade agreement, by 2023, 40 to 45 percent of work on automobiles must be completed by workers earning at least $16 an hour as a measure to shift auto production away from Mexico. Cars are international trade commodities and their trade should be determined by competition, with the government maintaining neutral, but apparently, the US government doesn't think so. After the renegotiation of the original North American Free Trade Agreement, the phrase "free trade" was noticeably absent from the name of the new pact.The author is a former economic and commercial counselor at the Chinese Consulates General in San Francisco and New York. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas