The necessity of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)'s existence has once again been questioned. Alexander Neu, member of the German federal parliament, the Bundestag, suggested that the military alliance be dissolved as it turns 70 this year and a new collective security system, which includes Russia, be built. There have been different attitudes toward the US and Russia. Some tend to forge stronger transatlantic ties while others advocate greater cooperation with Russia, especially in the field of energy. It shows that competition over security between US and Germany, and between US and Europe hasn't ceased. NATO was a byproduct of the Cold War, but it didn't cease to exist after the Cold War ended. On the contrary, the military alliance changed its strategies to adapt to the changing international order and European structure in the wake of the Cold War. The organization not only grew stronger but also became increasingly important. In the 21st century, NATO has been more than a regional security community based on collective defense. It is also a community of common values that promotes political cooperation to complement joint efforts in security affairs. Hence, NATO is not so much a coalition whose member countries ensure mutual security commitments as much as an alliance in which the US provides assurance of security to its allies. The organization has formed an international hierarchical system dominated by Washington. After US President Donald Trump took office, US-Europe ties have been facing new challenges. NATO is a pillar of transatlantic security cooperation. However, this did not stop Trump from questioning its efficiency. He also accused NATO member states of failing to pay for their collective defense and not responding to terrorism as well as regional security issues in time. The European security order after the WWII benefited from NATO. If the US-Europe security alliance is abandoned by Trump, NATO's collective defense mechanism will lose its efficacy. Security ties across the two sides of the Atlantic would then stagnate. Europe will seek to strengthen its defense to cope with the perceived strategic pressure from Russia. Europe needs to depend on its own forces of collective security, strengthen EU's strategic autonomy and help the bloc avoid complete dependence on the alliance with the US. In the wake of the US withdrawal from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty and the Iran nuclear deal, Europe's awareness of the continent's security situation will help cement European defense integration, especially when Europe is unable to find another external security ally.However, for Poland and other countries that have recently joined or wish to join NATO, the organization is a platform to become part of the European collective security system. They want to join the organization. But this will weaken Europe's defense integration. Against the backdrop, the strengthening of the Franco-German axis may turn out to be a driving force of European integration. "The EU is, under French leadership, creating a European army," reported the European Council on Foreign Relations. The army will show the world that only a strong Europe can defend itself. When NATO is repeatedly questioned, when populism is posing a threat to European security, the possibility of the continent facing a security crisis is increasing.For the US, NATO needs to radically change its concept of partnership. The US wants it to be more than a transatlantic alliance, but a part of US global security network.But when Washington pays increasing attention to East Asia, the EU is focusing more on building its own defense forces. When the global security order and regional security are facing new challenges, their collective security system may be rebuilt. However, the US and EU will more likely carry out their own separate global strategic tasks.  The author is a research fellow with the Institute of European Studies, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.opinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar