Excited fans take pictures of their favorite stars at the 9th Beijing International Film Festival red carpet on Saturday in the Huairou district, Beijing. Photo: Li Hao/GT

French actress Sophie Marceau waves to fans at the opening of the film festival. Photo: Li Hao/GTMovie fans cheered and snapped pictures as film stars took to the red carpet at the 9th Beijing International Film Festival (BJIFF) on Saturday night. The opening ceremony for the festival was held at the State Production Base of China Film Group in the capital city's Huairou district. Launched in 2011 with the support of the Beijing municipal government, the week-long film festival has evolved to become a major international movie event for filmmakers from around the world.  In order to capture the attention of young fans, the festival invited popular entertainers such as Angelababy, Dilraba and Wu Jinyan to take part in the ceremony.  Although a promotional poster for the event became the butt of a joke on Chinese social media for featuring a tree Chinese netizens felt "looked like a piece of broccoli," the lineup for the festival itself should make film lovers stand up and take notice. In addition to screening hundreds of films, theme forums such as the China-India Film Co-Production Dialogue and Internet Film Forum will be held during the week.In total, 15 films from hundreds of submissions around the globe were shortlisted for the festival's Tiantan Award, which includes 10 award categories, such as Best Feature Film, Best Director, Best Actor/Actress, Best Screenplay and Best Cinematography.Chinese actress Carina Lau and Robert Minkoff, the US director known for co-directing Disney's The Lion King (1994), sit on the seven-member jury who will decide the winners.  Win-win cooperationAnother feature of the festival is how it highlights the increasing cooperation between the Chinese film industry and the industries of other countries, which reflects the increased openness and internationalization of Chinese films and BJIFF. Directed by Chinese director Xirzat Yahup and co-produced by both Chinese and Kazakh studios, the opening film for the festival The Composer tells a story adapted from the experiences of legendary Chinese composer Xian Xinghai and shows the friendship between the people of China and Kazakhstan.Moreover, the China-Malaysia co-production Three Adventures of Brooke will also be screened during the festival.In addition to cooperation among Belt and Road Initiative countries, it is worth mentioning that Japanese movies and filmmakers were a common sight at the opening ceremony, which suggests deeper exchanges between the two countries due to their cultural closeness. Japanese films like Lover Umbrella, A Banana? At This Time of the Night? and Erica 38 will be screened during the festival. Japanese actor Yutaka Matsushige, who is popular figure among young Chinese for his food drama series The Solitary Gourmet, sparked fans' passion at the red carpet for his latest film Mr. Hikita, I Am Knocked Up.The opening ceremony also welcomed several guests from the West. Legendary French actress Sophie Marceau attended as a guest and signed autographs for enthusiastic fans, while famous US actor and screenwriter Christopher Walken also attended the ceremony with his wife.Kenan Heppe, who plays the role of US journalist Edgar Snow in the festival's film Red Star over China, shocked some at the ceremony by speaking fluent Chinese. "He [Edgar Snow] is great, he introduced China to the world," said Heppe during a red carpet interview. Ordinary livesIn addition to international cooperation, films at the festival show a trend toward focusing on the stories about ordinary people and their lives that resonate with audiences. Adapted from real events, film Fire Hero follows the lives of a group of firemen while Chinese Pilot depicts the heroic moment the captain of a Sichuan Airlines plane saved his passengers lives by keeping his cool during a harrowing emergency landing. There is also a warm story named Li Na from Chinese director Peter Chan about world renowned Chinese tennis player Li Na's successful career and the support she received from her family. "Considering we have so many excellent athletes, sports movies need to be developed in China. I read her autobiography and feel that Li is such an attractive figure with an admirable attitude," Chan explained at the opening ceremony, talking about his motivation for making the film.Other family-themed films such as Good Boy, Good Kung Fu and Animal Rescue Squad are also highly anticipated by movie lovers. The Monkey King and three other  Peking Opera films are also being screen during the festival to promote the traditional Chinese art form. The festival's closing and awards ceremony will be held on April 20. Newspaper headline: Red carpet bonanza Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandasSeeing the future