A woman who successfully received a womb gives birth to a healthy baby boy at the Xijing Hospital in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Jan. 20, 2019. (Xinhua/Zhang Yinan)Health authorities in South China's Guangdong Province are investigating after three newborns died in a top hospital, allegedly after being infected with a virus. An official from Shunde Hospital of Southern Medical University in Foshan, Guangdong told the Global Times on Thursday that experts from provincial and municipal health bureaus had arrived to look into the deaths. The incident came to public attention after a netizen, who said he was the father of one of the newborns, disclosed on social media that a few days after his baby was born, the child was infected with a strain of enterovirus, which can cause a range of symptoms from the mild to the more serious.  The post on WeChat, under the user name wuchangqi, said his baby died because of internal bleeding, brain hemorrhage and multiple organ failure. The post alleged that two other newborns had died with similar symptoms in the past month, and suggested that they were all infected at the hospital.  "Many newborns were transferred to other hospitals after infection, they showed various degree of illness," said wuchangqi.The post called on the hospital to publicly reveal how many babies were infected and whether the hospital was the source of the virus.  A vice director of the medical department at Shunde Hospital, surnamed Liang, told the Global Times on Thursday that three babies had died, but on different days and that their symptoms were different. After the post circulated online and caused a public outcry, the hospital announced Wednesday on its website that they felt deep regret and sadness about the tragic death of the newborns. It vowed to actively cooperate with the investigations. Foshan health bureau announced on Thursday on its website that they would direct the treatment and infection prevention on babies, and would supervise and investigate the case. Newspaper headline: Virus claims at top hospital probed Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun