Leaders from 40 countries and international organizations attend the round-table meeting of the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation (BRF) in Beijing on Saturday. Photo: XinhuaIndia for the second consecutive time did not attend the Belt and Road ­Forum for International Cooperation (BRF) held in Beijing from Thursday to Saturday, which reveals its concerns toward the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), experts said. The BRF attracted 5,000 participants from more than 150 countries and 90 international organizations. India has boycotted the BRI in protest over the $60 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), a flagship project of the being routed through "Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK)," reported the Press Trust of ­India (PTI) on Saturday. India has strong reservations over the CPEC as it passes through the region, and this "violates" India's sovereignty, said Indian daily newspaper the Economic Times on Saturday."Cooperation under the BRI does not and will not violate any country's sovereignty. The CPEC is an economic cooperation initiative that has nothing to do with territorial sovereignty disputes and does not affect China's principled position on the Kashmir issue," Ye Hailin, a research fellow on South Asian issues at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, told the Global Times on Sunday.China also affirmed respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity in the joint communiqué released Saturday after a leaders' round-table meeting at the forum.Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan said at the BRF Friday that Pakistan's relationship with India remains the "only problem" for peace and stability in the region, and expressed hope of establishing a "civilized relationship" with New Delhi after the country's general elections are over, PTI reported. China says in the joint communiqué that all states are equal partners for cooperation that respects openness, transparency, inclusiveness and a level playing field. "Cooperation under the China-proposed BRI is always open to India. India needs China's market, technology and money. China also needs India for better cooperation in South Asia," said Jiang Jingkui, director of ­Peking University's South Asian Languages Department. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun