Chinese fans waiting to see Avengers: Endgame pose for a picture in a theater in Beijing on Tuesday night. Photo: ICA movie theater in East China that played a video shaming 60 dishonest people ahead of a screening of the Hollywood blockbuster Avengers: Endgame premiere on Wednesday has gone viral on the internet.The people's court in Liandu district of Lishui, Zhejiang Province released a short video on the consequences of failing to fulfill obligations and published information on 60 people including their photos, names and part of their ID numbers in a local cinema, reported the Zhejiang Daily on Wednesday."The court made the information public as part of the city's ongoing effort to establish a local credit and credibility system," a court official surnamed Qi told the Global Times on Thursday. The video will be played before screenings in several cinemas in Lishui, and will be seen by more than 2,000 viewers daily.One listed person, surnamed Lan, rushed to the court to pay back his 50,000 yuan ($7,430) debt and asked the court to remove his name from the list. He said his daughter was going to watch a movie with her friends on the weekend and was worried they would see the list, Zhejiang Daily reported. Another man, surnamed Chen, asked the court if he could return the debt in installments after being exposed in a WeChat group of parents from his child's school. "That's a huge shame and our child feels ashamed. We will pay it back," Chen's wife said, according to the report.Exposing names in cinemas is a more powerful and efficient method than doing it in TV news or by mobile phone. Publishing lists of dishonest people helps remind the public to be cautious in economic exchanges with them, and has a deterrent effect, Qi said. While most people hailed the move, some netizens raised their concerns, given that dishonest people don't always care about public criticism. They said taking away certain rights, such as buying a car or plane tickets, could be a more efficient method. Some also suggested members of the Communist Party of China could be exposed first on the list.The court has issued the names of 5,478 dishonest people since 2018, and published information of more than 300 dishonest people on LED screens and televisions in public places, leading to more than 80 people fulfilling their obligations, according to Qi. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas