Illustration: Xia Qing/GTInfluenced by factors such as general elections, the political situation in Southeast Asia has entered a new round of instability in recent years. Some Southeast Asian countries have even experienced the rotation of ruling parties that have not been seen for more than half a century.Chinese enterprises often suffer from "collateral damage" during this political turbulence, which has brought severe challenges in protecting China's interests overseas. China needs to prepare for potential risks beforehand and deal with them in a calm way. Last week, Indonesia, the largest economy in Southeast Asia, held its general election, which happens every five years. Some candidates have used China-Indonesia joint projects as campaign topics during election canvassing.China-Indonesia joint projects, such as the Jakarta-Bandung railway, are all market-oriented and take a business-to-business approach. A joint venture company formed by the China Railway International Corporation and four state-owned enterprises in Indonesia takes responsibility for the investment, construction, operation, profit and loss of the projects. The skeptical stance taken by some Indonesian candidates regarding these projects was simply due to the election.The China-Indonesia comprehensive strategic partnership has developed smoothly. China has become Indonesia's biggest trading partner, largest tourist generating country and the third largest source of foreign investment. Investment by Chinese enterprises in Indonesia covers fields including infrastructure, energy, minerals and finance, bringing huge benefits to both China and Indonesia. For example, Huawei's localization rate for employees in Indonesia has reached 86 percent, indirectly generating over 20,000 jobs each year. Alibaba opened a second data center in Indonesia, doubling the local service capacity.Prabowo Subianto, politician and former Lieutenant General of the Indonesian National Armed Forces, had to admit in the fifth presidential and vice presidential debates that Indonesia should learn from China's poverty reduction pattern.China and Malaysia also reached an agreement on restarting the East Coast Rail Link (ECRL) recently after several rounds of negotiations between them. They agreed to reduce the ECRL project budget by a third, and will jointly build and manage the project.The ECRL project has proved that the projects invested by Chinese enterprises in Southeast Asia, particularly some megaprojects, are the result of collaborative consultations between the two sides. The benefits of the project are in line with the interests of both countries, and it is quite common to encounter some twists and turns during the implementation. China and Southeast Asia do not have much experience in cooperating on building megaprojects. They need to continuously improve ways to move forward toward their common goals.China and 11 Southeast Asian countries have already signed a Memorandum of Understanding on the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). As the BRI progresses steadily, more Chinese enterprises will enter Southeast Asia. They will bring more employment, tax revenue and opportunities, which will greatly benefit Southeast Asian countries in upgrading their industrialization, solving employment problems and expanding their markets. Although Southeast Asian countries are in the midst of political transformation, issues related to China are often treated with great concern, and Chinese enterprises are demonized from time to time, it is crucial for China to enhance internal strength and abilities and to deepen and consolidate ties with Southeast Asian countries to build a closer "community with shared future."The author is a senior research fellow at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cnNewspaper headline: Chinese firms to be pragmatic on changes in SE Asia Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas