A scene from HBO TV series Game of Thrones Photo: IC

 

 

People from different countries gather at Caravan to watch the first episode of Game of Thrones Season Eight. Caravan also provides GOT beer for fans (right). Photos: Liu ShujiaThere were cheers, tears and beer, in a bar in Beijing, where some 80 people gathered around two TVs and one projection screen. People from China, the US, France, India, Ireland, Pakistan, and other countries were all watching the latest season of Home Box Office's (HBO) Game of Thrones (GOT).Conrad Turley from Ireland has been a regular at the Caravan's (a bar in Beijing's Chaoyang district) GOT viewing parties about three years ago. He told the Global Times that since a large number of scenes in GOT were made in Ireland and half of the actors in GOT are Irish, he doesn't just like the story, but has a national interest in the program.  "To be honest, Game of Thrones is more than just a television program, it's like a sports event," he said. He explained how he feels when people gather in the same bar and have discussions before an episode, and how they get very engaged as the story develops just like wondering if an athlete is going to win. "And after the 'game,' people like to talk about it like post match analysis," he said. However, a Chinese woman whose English name is Viana said she's only watched the last season of GOT, even though she joked that she had been pretending to be a fan of GOT when people around her talked about the TV drama. She feels that GOT is a show that is better to be watched with friends. "You can have big reactions… It's fun to always discuss it with people," she said. The eighth season of GOT was released on American time April 14. GOT's last season received a lot of attention in China. On douban.com, a Chinese film, TV, music and literature social networking service website, the eighth season of GOT received a rating of 9.7/10 after its first episode aired in China. The rating is so far the highest among all of the eight seasons. According to Beijing Business Today, a Beijing local daily newspaper, report, as of 2 pm on April 15, the first episode of the eighth season of GOT had been viewed 47.99 million times on Tencent's website v.qq.com. Also, it was the second most popular TV drama on the website following the Chinese martial arts adaptation Relying on Heaven to Slaughter Dragons. But not everyone is satisfied with the new season. Dave from California, the US told the Global Times that to catch up with the new season, he and his friends spent the last three weeks or so watching all the previous seasons over again. "To be honest, I didn't expect much because it (GOT's eighth season) was not [written by] the original writer. It's like [written by] Hollywood writers. So, it's really not the same. And the dialogue has been lackluster," he said. He said that he had expectations that each episode of the last season would be longer than previous ones since there are only six episodes for the eighth season while each of the previous seasons had seven to 10 episodes."But I thought [the first episode] was a little short which is disappointing," he said. But he went on to explain that he is away from home in a different country, watching GOT together with people who share the same interest has a certain sense of belonging.Caravan, which showed the first episode four times on Monday, is not the only bar in Beijing that organizes GOT viewing parties. The Beijinger, an English language listings and entertainment website and magazine, listed seven ads for similar GOT activities. Badr Benjelloun from Morocco is the owner of Caravan. He told the Global Times that he started the party five years ago, since a lot of his friends are GOT fans and he originally just wanted to organize an event for them. Three years ago, Caravan began to show GOT in real time. To make fans more engaged, the bar also provides GOT beer and specially designed food, like a dish named the Red Wedding. "This food had already been sold out during daytime," Benjelloun told the Gobal Times. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas