A view of Mount Qomolangma, commonly known in the West as Mount Everest Photo: XinhuaIt has been six years since Chinese leaders proposed the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), and under the initiative, Chinese companies, including state-owned enterprises and private firms, have expanded overseas, made investment in countries and regions along the BRI and brought significant changes to local conditions. The Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation will take place in Beijing from Thursday to Saturday,  and Global Times reporters talked with several representatives from Chinese firms, listening to stories about how they participate in the joint construction of BRI projects. Wang Ziyang, the chief representative of China Gezhouba Group Corporation (CGGC)'s office in Nepal, has been busy with final preparations for the Upper Trishuli-3A Hydropower Plant in Nuwakot, which is 95 kilometers north of Nepal's capital Katmandu. Wang, who came to Nepal 12 years ago to push forward implementation of the project, now sees his efforts over the past decade paying off. The first unit of the hydropower plant, constructed by CGGC, will be put into trial operation on Tuesday. And within the next two months, the 60 megawatt (MW)-hydropower project will be completely put into commercial use.The building of the hydropower station has not been an easy task from the beginning, Wang recalled. Back in March 2009, CGGC signed a deal with Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) to construct the hydropower station, but due to an unstable political environment and frequent change of government officials, construction work did not start until June 2011."It also took more than one year to ink the financing deals for the hydropower plant with relevant parties," Wang told the Global Times.Even after the construction work began, the difficulties along the way were beyond the Chinese employees' expectations. "At first, we estimated that the hydropower plant can be completed within three years… But unexpectedly, natural disasters such as debris flow and floods hit the country. Roads were separated and power was cut off, and as a result, halting construction has become a routine practice," Wang said. In 2015, Nepal was struck by an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.8 on the Richter scale, rippling most of its basic infrastructure and key trading ports, and hydropower project construction was paused for two years. Political struggle In addition to natural disasters, the struggle for political power among different parties in Nepal has also impeded the implementation of hydropower projects, industry insiders said. "The Nepalese political situation also involves the interests of its neighbor, India, which often obstructs key border trade points with Nepal as sanctioning methods. But the embargo also postponed the supply of construction materials for the project. Ultimately, it took more than eight years for us to complete the hydropower dam," Wang said.What's worse is that China-built mega hydropower projects have sometimes become the target and victim of political struggle in Nepal. The $2.5 billion Budhi Gandaki hydroelectric project in central Nepal, a project in which Wang is also involved, is such an example. In November 2017, Nepal's government, which was pro-India at the time, scrapped the deal with CGGC signed in June 2017, citing "lapses in the award process," Reuters reported. The project was then handed over to the NEA. But in 2018, Nepal's new government, led by China-friendly Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli, reversed the decision and the project was given back to CGGC. But as the previous construction permit awarded to CGGC was cancelled, Wang said the company has had to start negotiations with the Nepalese government again. So far, the Chinese company has reached a framework agreement with Nepal and the project is under review and being assessed by different Nepalese department and institutions. The final deal, in the form of EPC+F (Engineering, Procurement, Construction and Financing), will be signed after the project passes the assessment procedures, according to Wang. Strong confidenceDespite a tough mission, Wang said he is confident that Chinese companies, including CGGC, could play a vital role in addressing the acute power shortage in Nepal under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).Currently, about 30 percent of Nepal's electricity relies on imports from India, according to industry observers. But Nepal is home to abundant hydropower resources, which account for 2.3 percent of the world's total."In Nepal, electricity is often shut off for hours, especially in regions outside Katmandu, and power cuts can be as long as seven to eight hours. The Nepalese government is actively looking to ameliorate the power shortage. Officials also want to eliminate reliance on foreign electricity imports through exploring rich resources and improving the infrastructure network," Wang noted.The Upper Trishuli-3A hydropower plant, which will be put into use next week, could supply 500 million kilowatt-hours of electricity to Nepal every year, which is equivalent to 10 percent of Nepal's annual power shortage. Meanwhile, such projects will not create a "debt trap" as Western media have suggested, because the profit outlook is quite promising, according to Wang."The Upper Trishuli hydropower plant could recover the costs and yield profits in five years. For the Budhi Gandaki hydroelectric project, it may take longer, but the project's social benefit is larger," Wang said.Having lived in Nepal for more than 10 years, Wang identified himself as not only a witness of significant progress of BRI infrastructure projects in the country, but also a witness of how Nepalese have changed their attitudes toward Chinese companies.   "Nepalese trust Chinese more now and many of them have learned Chinese. When I walk on the street, sometimes Nepalese will greet me in Chinese," Wang said. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun