File photo: VCGChina and the EU may not agree on a joint statement after the summit in Brussels next week as the EU perceives China is no longer merely a partner, and the continent does not want an agreement with China to get in the way of its positions for the key agenda of the upcoming G20 Summit, industry insiders said.Chinese Premier Li Keqiang will make a five-day trip to Europe starting from Monday, according to Vice Foreign Minister Wang Chao. Li will attend the 21st China-EU Summit in Brussels during the visit. The China-EU Summit will take place on Tuesday, according to media reports. During Li's stay in Brussels, he will hold talks with EU leaders Donald Tusk and Jean-Claude Juncker, Wang said. The China-Europe summit is widely regarded as a high-level opportunity for China and Europe to address concerns and cement bilateral ties. A joint statement following the conclusion of the summit to formalize policy has been a diplomatic convention since the summit first took place in 1998. But some observers suggested that this year's summit may not produce a joint statement, as the substance of China-EU relations has become "more strategically complicated," which may result in a split between China and the EU over some key issues.EU's positioning on China is now shifting. Ahead of the summit, the European Commission issued a policy document in March, describing China as "a cooperation partner… and a systematic rival." Accordingly, the document also proposed a 10-point plan for future relations with China, including trade, climate, a common EU approach to the security of 5G networks and screening of foreign direct investment. Cui Hongjian, director of EU Studies at the China Institute of International Studies, told the Global Times that the 10 points are the list "that the EU put forward to be discussed with China during the summit." Specifically, in some areas such as trade, climate and WTO reform, China and the EU may find each other to be irreplaceable economic partners and have broader prospects for cooperation, according to Wang Yiwei, Jean Monnet Chair Professor at the Renmin University of China. China and the EU are expected to speed up the negotiation for a bilateral investment treaty during the summit, Wang predicted.Meanwhile, the bloc urged China to address its concerns about market access and industrial policy. But China won't compromise on those issues and has its own timetable for opening up, which is another reason the EU is reluctant to agree on a joint declaration, Cui said.The South China Morning Post also reported on Friday the two sides are at odds over China's market access. The Chinese government's alleged industrial subsidies are another issue that the two sides are bickering over, the AFP reported. Pragmatic approachWhile some Western media boasted that a joint declaration represents a breakthrough in the complex China-Europe relationship, industry insiders said that the absence of a statement is "not a big deal."The timing of the summit, which was held during the ongoing China-US trade talks and ahead of the G20 Summit in Japan in June, has left the EU with little willingness to issue a statement that clears its stance swiftly."The EU is taking a 'wait-and-see' attitude to see if it could 'take a slice of pie' out of the results of trade talks. It also worried that a statement with China may weaken its position on key issues in the upcoming G20 Summit, such as WTO reform," Wang said. In fact, no deal at all is better than a superficial and vacuous statement that only reaffirms the two sides' stances, Cui said. "It shows that the two sides are exchanging ideas on genuine problems and sitting down to solve disputes." The Global Times learned that China and the EU also did not issue any joint statement in 2017 and 2016. The direction of China-EU relations won't be dented by a simple statement, especially at a time when rising uncertainties rattle the world, Wang added.  In 2018, bilateral trade volume between China and the EU grew 10.6 percent to $682.2 billion, according to China's Ministry of Commerce. The EU has been China's largest trading partner for 15 years in a row and China has become the EU's second largest trading partner. "China and the EU are like a couple that has been in love for some time but hesitated over whether they should get married… The EU is afraid that a deeper relationship may make it lose its independence and be too reliant on China. But as long as bilateral talks dismiss such concerns, they could bring relations to the next level," Cui explained. Newspaper headline: China, EU may split on joint statement China to be offered Russia's 'best warplane' Su-57New Zealand Prime Minister visits ChinaIndia's nationalistic media could disrupt China-India ties Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar