José Viñals, Group Chairman at Standard Chartered. Photo: Courtesy of Standard Chartered
 


Aerial photo shows the Yanqi Lake in Beijing. The Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation was held on April 25-27 in Beijing. Photo: Xinhua
More and more foreign and multilateral financial institutions have been partnering with Chinese peers to jointly invest in, and provide financing resources for the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) projects, highlighting a strong momentum for financial cooperation that helps close the financial gap of those projects and contributes to their sustainability, industry players said.
"The BRI is not a closed Chinese club, it's something that is open to all parties that joined and benefited from the initiative. A multilateral approach to the BRI… ensures the financial viability of projects," José Viñals, Group Chairman at Standard Chartered, told the Global Times on the sidelines of the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation (BRF) on Saturday.
Viñals said that the London-headquartered bank has been working with not only Chinese policy and commercial banks but also multilateral financial institutions such as the World Bank, Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and New Development Bank to finance BRI projects in recent years. 
In 2018, Standard Chartered, along with partners, participated and facilitated in financing nearly 100 BRI projects, with a total financing size exceeding $20 billion.
"[This is like] a relationship between many international parties who are the best at what they do and can provide the best contribution each to a particular project," Viñals said.
The bank has signed agreements with China Export & Credit Insurance Corporation and the Export-Import Bank of China on Wednesday and Thursday, respectively. 
While Chinese banks may have an edge in resource and credit scale, foreign and multilateral banking institutions may have more experience in understanding the risks and the complexities of different projects, which together make sure the projects have proper governance and design so they can generate adequate returns, industry insiders said.
The $4.3 billion power plant project in Dubai is an example of how Chinese and foreign companies cooperated in a third-market that is environmentally, socially, and financially viable, Viñals exemplified.  
The project's participants include Standard Chartered, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, a Chinese contractor as well as US and Spanish providers, who worked together to create a green project that provides energy to several hundred thousand people in the United Arab Emirates. So far, Chinese financial institutions have provided $440 billion for BRI infrastructure, Yi Gang, governor of China's central bank, said at a sub-session of the BRI on Thursday. And a total of 11 Chinese banks have set up 76 country-level institutions in countries and regions along BRI, according to Yi.A representative of the Bank of China (BOC) at the BRF surnamed Zhang told the Global Times that more innovative financial tools have been launched in partnership with local banks and financial institutions in BRI countries. For example, BOC has created and issued several BRI-themed bonds in 12 BRI countries since 2015, which have raised $10.8 billion so far for BRI projects. The bonds are issued in yuan, dollar, euro, Australian dollar and Singapore dollar, according to Zhang. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun