Skyline of Shanghai File photo: VCG There will still be some dark clouds, but the sky is getting clearer.That could be the main takeaway from data about the performance of the Chinese economy in the first quarter of 2019, which has been widely expected to be one of the toughest quarters in decades for the world's second-largest economy.The National Bureau of Statistics is scheduled to release the GDP figures on Wednesday morning.While warning that tough times may still lie ahead, Chinese economists have turned more bullish about the health of the Chinese economy. "The downward pressure is still very significant, but that's not something new," said Liu Xuezhi, an economist at Bank of Communications. "What's new is that we are seeing the economy may be bottoming out."Liu estimated that first-quarter GDP growth slowed to about 6.3 percent, largely in line with broader market forecasts. A Reuters poll of analysts also put China's GDP growth in the quarter at 6.3 percent.While a 6.3-percent rate would be the slowest pace for the economy in about 27 years, it would still be an impressive result, given the depth of hardship China faced over the past few months, said Li Daxiao, chief economist at Shenzhen-based Yingda Securities."What's really encouraging is that this was expected to be the hardest time, but we still pulled it off," Li told the Global Times on Tuesday. Even at 6.3 percent, China's GDP growth would still be one of the fastest among major economies. The US economy, for instance, is expected to grow 2.1 percent this year.China would remain the largest contributor to global economic growth, contributing about 30 percent of the total.But as analysts were quick to point out, the performance hasn't come easily. Faced with what top officials acknowledged as "unprecedented" challenges for the Chinese economy both internally and externally, policymakers moved swiftly to stabilize growth.At home, top officials backed the private sector, which contributes about 60 percent of GDP growth and 90 percent of employment. They announced massive cuts in taxes and fees for companies and expanded fiscal spending in key areas, while avoiding "flood-like" stimulus. "The shape of the stimulus package this time is very different from earlier rounds," a report from HSBC said last week of China's measures. "We believe that it will not only work, but will also trigger a self-sustained recovery in the coming quarters."As a result, recent economic indicators, including better-than-expected manufacturing and services activity, painted an increasingly positive outlook. Improvements were also seen in total social financing and money supply. The stock market has also been on a bull run, with the Shanghai Composite Index gaining more than 30 percent so far this year.Apart from domestic measures, officials have continued negotiations with the US to end a trade war, and improved trade ties with key trading partners, most notably the EU."These have all contributed to the growing optimistic view of the Chinese economy," Liu said. "With the government measures to kick in soon, I think we will see better results in the coming quarters."The UK-based bank further predicted that China's full year GDP growth could be 6.6 percent, higher than the official growth target of between 6 percent and 6.5 percent. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Chinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandasSeeing the future