A reader browses a book at the Readway bookstore in Beijing's Chaoyang Joy City mall on Wednesday. Photo: Wang Qi/GTHow many books did you read in 2018?According to the 16th National Reading Survey released by the Chinese Academy of Press and Publication (CAPP) ahead of April 23rd's annual World Book Day, the average number of books read by adults in China is 8, with 3.32 being e-books and 4.76 traditional paper books.Compared with the numbers from previous years, the report shows that e-book reading is on the rise. In 2012 Chinese adults read an average of 2.25 e-books, which rose to 3.22 in 2015. According to the survey, 38.4 percent of adults preferred paper books over e-books, a 6.7 percent decrease from 2017. Tying in with the above data, the survey also shows an increase in the average usage for smartphones, internet and e-book readers such as Kindle in 2018. Additionally, more than 30 percent of Chinese surveyed said they listen to audio books.Although there is an obvious trend toward e-book reading, which is more suitable for the fast-paced life of young people, paper books still have their loyal fans and so are not going anywhere anytime soon.  Adapting to change"The results of the survey are not surprising since people today have multiple ways to aquire and share knowledge… To be honest, I don't read much more than what people in the survey do," Zheng Ci, a 29-year-old designer, told the Global Times at the Readway bookstore in Beijing's Chaoyang Joy City mall. Managed by SDX Joint Publishing Company (commonly known as Sanlian Press), the Readway bookstore is popular among young people in China for its literary and artistic atmosphere. "I like to read books about designing and photography that are either related to my hobby or my specialty," said Zheng.According to Zheng, although he still reads paper books when it comes to text books or professional publications since it is easier to take notes on the pages and flip back and forth, the pressures of reality has forced him to move away from other types of physical books. "Paper books were taking up too much space in my room, considering the fact that I am renting a small expensive room in Beijing," said Zheng. "And I really like the convenience of Kindle while I'm on my commute. You don't have to carry a lot of books, just download them onto your Kindle and everything will be fine. ""Listening to an audio book is also a good idea I think, especially for those books with linear plots, like novels."Although he is a loyal e-book user, Zheng loves to visit bookstores in his free time. He admitted that e-books are a bit like "fast food" to some extent."I think the biggest advantage of paper books and bookstores is that you can preview a book and get a feel for it before you purchase it, which is totally different that looking at only one or two pictures of a book's cover in an online store."IrreplaceableWhile many other bookstores in China have updated their facilities and interior design, the Beijing Book Building looks the same as it always has. Once the largest bookstore in China, the Beijing Book Building is not as popular among young people as it once was. "Nowadays, most of our analysis and judgments about social phenomena are based on data about younger generations born in the 1980s, 1990s and 2000s. The pace of our society is getting faster, according to my understanding fragmented learning has gradually become a trend," An Ran, a 68-year-old reader browsing through the Beijing Book Building, told the Global Times. An noted that while he respects the reading habits of today's young people, he plans to stick to his own for now.    "For me, the sense of immersion of reading a real book is irreplaceable,"said An. "I think people of my age might read more books, I read about 50 books a year."This doesn't mean An is totally living in the past. He noted that he likes audio books because he doesn't have to worry about straining his eyes, and, like Zheng, he noted the convenience of digital formats while taking public transportation. However, he still trusts his eyes far more than his ears when it comes to books. "The ideas that are sparked by words I can see with my eyes are totally different than what I imagine when I listen to an audio book. My attention is all on the page when I read, but when I listen, my eyes end up looking elsewhere," noted An.In the end, e-books still stand in second place compared to physical media."I wish e-books were cheaper than paper books. After all, e-book are only a substitute option for me."Newspaper headline: Digital future Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Having funChinese company BYD announces 300th bus production in LancasterSan Diego says farewell to giant pandas