Children with autism(left) make coffee for the customers(right) at A-Coffee in Shanghai on May 25, 2018. Photo: IC

Cao Xiaoxia Photo: Courtesy of Ishiwata Tanni"My mother always says that it's not because we have hope that we don't give up. It's because we don't give up that we have hope," Ishiwata Tanni, the son of Cao Xiaoxia, told the Global Times on Saturday. Shanghai City Symphony Orchestra, the Angel's Confidant Salon, A-Coffee, three organizations have been a significant part of the life of 64-year-old musician Cao Xiaoxia. Symphony with amateurs In the hope of bringing music closer to the public, Cao Xiaoxia and her father, Cao Peng, China's reputed conductor, established Shanghai City Symphony Orchestra in 2005. It was the first amateur orchestra in the Chinese mainland. Members of the orchestra come from all walks of life — students, a partner at a law firm, and a retired player of a professional orchestra. They include a medley of nationalities. An American man, who played cello in the group, was working in Suzhou, a city near Shanghai. He would go to the rehearsal by train and catch the late night train back to Suzhou, Cao Peng told The Paper, a Chinese media site. During the founding and development of the orchestra, they received support from different parts of society. Besides the orchestra performing at various settings and bringing music across the city, Cao Xiaoxia has been trying to find more ways to pay the denizens. When she read a magazine article describing the soothing effect of music on young people with autism, Angel's Confidant Salon was born.Decade of perseveranceThe care center was set up in 2008 with volunteers who were members of Shanghai City Symphony Orchestra. They would teach autistic children to play instruments, sing, and dance.Without professional training, it was not easy to communicate with autistic children. Let alone teach them to play instruments, the volunteers found that most kids could not even read the music sheet.The volunteers put in a great deal of effort to find a way to work with the children. A decade of persistence paid off. The children's condition got better because of the music. Some kids would act up while entering the classroom at the salon. But when the music started, they would calm down. The children performed outside China, including in UK, Japan and Vatican City.  The center has taken in more than 200 children. There are about 50 currently at the center. Cao was concerned about their integration into society when they grew up which made her come up with the idea of setting up a café, where they could work as baristas and communicate with customers. Brewing confidenceThe eight baristas are young autistic people from Angel's Confidant Salon. The café, which opened in 2018, offers free coffee. The customers are expected to talk with the baristas, and encouraged to create slightly difficult tasks for them. They would also receive training on interacting with the young people before coming in. The baristas have made notable progress in their communication skills after working at the café for a year. "A child was 13 when he first came to the café. He barely spoke with his parents at home. His parent told me that on the day the child spends at A-Coffee, he talks more for the entire week. After one year of working at the café, he has become better expressing himself. One morning, when his father was about to leave for work, the child said, 'Dad, please don't go.' His father stayed. In 14 years, it was the first time his son said something like this," said Tanni.  After the café opened in April last year, it was shut down for about a month for the owner decided to put it to another use. There was concern among the media and public for the difficulty in relocating. "We were all very positive at the time. The children would say, as long as Ms Cao is here, we would find a place for our café," recalled Tanni.Newspaper headline: Music for the mind China to be offered Russia's 'best warplane' Su-57New Zealand Prime Minister visits ChinaIndia's nationalistic media could disrupt China-India ties Seeing the futureAllahu Akbar