Power delegation reform will be the top job for deepening reform as China tries to bolster its state-owned enterprises (SOE), a top official with China's state-asset watchdog said on Monday. 
Weng Jieming, vice chairman of State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC), said the new measure would be the top reform job of SASAC in 2019. The state-asset watchdog will roll out a list specifying the power delegation. 
A draft list contains at least 30 items specifying the details of corporate power delegation process, according to Wang.
In a circular released on Sunday, the State Council, China's cabinet, called for the basic creation of a power delegation system by 2022 and significant reduction of administrative intervention in the operation of SOEs.
In particular, the circular said power will be delegated to boards of directors at state-owned investment companies and state-owned operating companies, which will allow them to recruit company management teams on the market. They will also have the power to review and approve incentive programs including stock options, equity shares and employee shareholding programs. 
Equity incentives will be also decoupled from the recipients' salary levels. Previously, managers of China's major SOEs were all appointed by different levels of government. 
Feng Liguo, a fellow with the research center at China Minsheng Bank, told the Global Times on Sunday that the power delegation is a vital step toward deepening SOE reforms.
"Vitality of SOEs will be further increased. SOE assets that are idle or generating low returns can be expected to be utilized. The scientific research capacity and entrepreneurship now hidden in SOEs can be expected to be unleashed," Feng said.
However, the power delegation will follow a case-specific route to suit the special circumstances faced by each company with no timetable specified, the circular said. There will be no rash, movement-style promotion of this delegation process, the circular noted.
Experts expect state-asset supervision reform will speed up in 2019 and work will be further promoted to build state-owned investment companies and state-owned operating companies - the professional investment platforms.
China has been striving to deepen SOE reforms since 2015.
A total of 21 central SOEs and 122 local SOEs are now state-owned investment companies or state-owned operating companies.
The circular said supervision of SOEs in China could be further improved because non-existent or lax supervision exist to some extent. The efficiency of SOEs needs to be further improved, it said. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun