Promotional material for Escape Room Photo: IC   

Neal H. Moritz Photo: IC Thriller Escape Room made its big screen debut in the Chinese mainland on Friday, becoming the highest-earning film of the eight new films released that day with 12.6 million yuan. The film currently has an 8.7/10 on Chinese ticketing platform Maoyan and a 7.4/10 on media review site Douban. The film's setup is similar to classic horror-thriller films such as Cube (1997) and Saw (2004). Six people from different walks of life take part in an escape room experience offering $10,000 to the winner. However, what was supposed to be just a fun outing turns serious after they find out that the game is not all it seems. 'Immersive thriller'The film was made by one of the producers for the Fast and Furious franchise, Neal H. Moritz, who held a conference call with media in Beijing on Wednesday. Moritz noted that he was inspired to make the film after noticing the rise in popularity of real life escape room experiences. After taking part in several of these interactive experiences himself, he teamed up with screenwriter Bragi F. Schut for the script and then, upon getting approval from the studio, began production.  Moritz said he particularly likes how the film connects the different rooms together and keeps tension up all the time. Watching "the lead actors, kind of, work their way from one room to another" and because of "a number of twists and turns," the film creates a "breath-holding immersive experience." Different from similar films, Escape Room, which avoids bloody scenes, is more of a thriller. In order to thrill the audience, each escape room is linked to the player's personal experiences in some way. "There was something in each of these rooms that each of these characters has to get over not only physically but also emotionally as well," Moritz noted. Responding to moviegoers who have criticized the $10,000 prize offered in the film as being laughingly small, Moritz explained that he choose this amount to stay realistic since he feels $10,000 is a lot of money for many who don't have high salaries. He also noted that some of the players in the film are not actually in it for the money, they want to try something new and interesting. Moritz noted that the filmmakers insistence that every detail be as true to life as possible and connected to the character's stories helps make the film feel more immersive as well.Fresh takeWhile anticipation for the film wasn't very high prior to its arrival, word of mouth is spreading now that the film seems to have found an audience. After the film's good opening-day performance, Maoyan upgraded its box-office prediction for the film from more than 90 million yuan range to over 120 million yuan on Saturday. The film had made 44.9 million yuan by 3 pm on Sunday, according to Maoyan.   "I thought it would be lame, but unexpectedly it was interesting. Although the plot is not entirely new, the way it all comes together helps it succeed," netizen Diaoxian wrote in a review of the film on Douban.  Other reviews have praised the film for its fast pace and well-designed scenes.Before the film debuted, box-office analysts in China were concerned that Chinese audiences would find the film boring since many Chinese moviegoers are familiar with escape room experiences as they have been a huge fad in Chinese urban centers for several years. However, this worry vanished after many reviewers began remarking about how impressed they were that the film was able to take something so familiar and make it fresh again. Moritz told the Global Times that the most rewarding part of producing Escape Room has been the audiences' positive reaction to it, which he observed when he went to watch the film five to six times with different audiences in the US. He said he was fully confident that the film will be able to please Chinese audiences considering the popularity of escape rooms in China. Audiences both in China and abroad have already begun clamoring for a sequel to the film, which was hinted at toward the end of the movie. When asked about the possibility of a sequel, Moritz said he was more than happy to continue the franchise and even welcomed the idea of working with Chinese actors, actresses and filmmakers in the future.      Newspaper headline: Twists and turns Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass Upgraded J-20 fighter jet 'overwhelmingly superior' to US F-35: analysts'Mediocrity of evil'China's 'Underground Steel Great Wall' capable of defeating hypersonic weapon attacks: academician 2019 Rose Parade held in PasadenaThe tide is turning: racists, bigots and sexists finally being held accountableNo country can dominate Africa How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐