Indian activists and locals wear medical protection masks during morning exercise in a park as part of an awareness campaign against pollution in India on December 9, 2018. Photo: ICLong troubled by air pollution, India launched a campaign last week to take control of the dangerous PM 2.5 and PM 10 particle levels in the country, as the government eyes cutting pollution by 20 to 30 percent by 2024. The move was hailed by analysts, who said it finally shows India is taking steps to resolve the problem. But environmentalists calling for specific targets and legal backing to the plan expressed concern over its ability to bring practical improvement.  "We hope the ministry shows more seriousness in implementing the plan and strengthening it," Sunil Dahiya, a senior campaigner of Greenpeace India, said in a statement on the organization's website. India is home to the world's 14 most polluted cities, according to the World Health Organization. Toxic air claimed 1.24 million lives in the country in 2017, a study in Lancet Planetary Health showed last month, Reuters reported. Since October, residents of northern India have struggled to breathe in thick smog that resulted from heavy air pollution, said Yuan Jirong, a Chinese journalist based in New Delhi. "Generally the PM 2.5 index reaches 300 to 500 from October to February, and peaked to 2,000 during the Diwali festival [in October or November]," Yuan told the Global Times. The PM 2.5 index crossing 50 is considered unhealthy. The particles are often considered one of the reasons for the growing incidence of chronic bronchitis and lung cancer. Diwali, the Hindu festival of lights, which sees fireworks across the country, has become a major air pollution source. As pollution spiked in New Delhi, the government adopted measures ranging from temporary closure of construction sites and shuttering of coal-fired power stations, but "none of them is for the long term," Yuan noted. Other components The National Clean Air Program (NCAP), put forward by India's Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, will cover 102 cities and aims to cut levels of the most dangerous particles under 10 microns in diameter, according to Environment Minister Harsh Vardhan.Ye Hailin, a research fellow on South Asian issues at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said the mass burning of agricultural waste in India is also a major reason for the heavy pollution."Rural Indians often burn straw for agricultural reasons, and as India harbors thousands of farmers, the impact is huge," Ye told the Global Times, before adding the retreating monsoon in winter contributes to the heavy smog. Obtaining ash after burning the straw is a traditional way of cultivating crops, but is considered a major source of PM 2.5 and PM 10 particles. "In winter, some Indians prefer to burn tires to get warm as they burns longer among many other things, but also produces pollutants," Ye noted. Monitoring sites needed Industrial emissions and vehicular exhaust are also major pollutants. Northern India has seen factories sprout, while the number of vehicles has also surged in recent years, said Sun Shihai, an expert at the South Asia Research Center under Sichuan University.He also believes governmental inefficiency might hamper the implementation of the five-year plan."The Indian government is often being questioned about its efficiency, but launching the plan means they are at least doing something," Sun said, adding the social awareness over air pollution in India remains low, but is improving. Sun also emphasized the need for setting up more monitoring sites in the country. "India lacks air pollution monitoring sites, which may impair the assessment of the campaign as many people are even unaware of the seriousness of air pollution," said Sun. India has only around 40 real-time pollution monitoring stations across the country, AFP reported. Ye noted that even though India might possibly be able to reduce air pollution levels, the problem remains difficult. "Even though they reached the goal of decreasing pollution by 30 percent, the problem remains huge because of its severity," he told the Global Times.Though there was friction between China and India, experts said there should be cooperation on tackling pollution, noting joint efforts will help hasten the process. China has managed to reduce levels of fine particulate matter emissions by roughly 40 percent in just four years, according to a research paper issued by Harvard's School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and the Nanjing University of Information Science and Technology earlier this month."China's experience in handling air pollution will benefit India in its own fight over smog," Sun said.Newspaper headline: Tiny particles, huge problem Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass Upgraded J-20 fighter jet 'overwhelmingly superior' to US F-35: analysts'Mediocrity of evil'China's 'Underground Steel Great Wall' capable of defeating hypersonic weapon attacks: academician 2019 Rose Parade held in PasadenaThe tide is turning: racists, bigots and sexists finally being held accountableNo country can dominate Africa How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐