Many young deliverymen in China left their hometown pursuing their dreams in big cities like Beijing. Photo: VCGA little globular earring is shining on his left ear. "It's their strategy - to make sure I get the smallest chance of catching the shuttlecock. They know I was a professional," the young man sitting opposite to me in a dumpling restaurant said as he showed a photo of himself in an amateur badminton doubles match. Beep, he gets a message on the phone - a new waimai order. He adjusts his beanie hat to make sure it covers his ears, and goes out of the restaurant to his motorcycle parked in front of the restaurant. A black box with a Meituan logo is on the rear of his bike. Chen Ping, 26, from Nanchong, Sichuan Province has been working as a delivery courier in Beijing for over a year. From Monday to Saturday, he delivers takeaway food orders to different customers; on Sunday, he plays badminton with friends or participates in competitions. "I can practice and make some money," he said. His New Year's resolution is to co-found a badminton hall with friends in Beijing. To make sure he has perfect attendance and to get his full basic salary for his last month as a deliveryman, Chen just made a decision to postpone his date to return home to spend the Chinese New Year holiday with his family.After Ele.me purchased Baidu Waimai on August 24, 2017, Meituan-Dianping and Ele.me have become the two largest players in the food delivery market in China. Providing meal delivery services has created a myriad of job opportunities as the sector continues to grow exponentially. According to Beijing Youth Daily's report on July 24, 2018, there are nearly seven million employees in the takeaway delivery industry. They have become the backbone of this sector which fulfills a daily, fundamental demand for city residents. According to a survey released by Meituan-Dianping Research Institute, 54 percent of the deliverymen were born from 1985 to 1995. In China, people call them Waimai Xiaoge (little takeaway brother). They are young and their job makes our life more convenient.But as individuals, like everyone, they have life goals and aspirations. Deliverymen's troopAt Jintai Xizhao Park in Chaoyang district, Beijing, the canal is frozen. The air can cause pain in your hands just from the exposure to the air. Fifty-six people in yellow jackets, kneepads and helmets form into two lines. Their motorbikes are parked alongside the road, which is parallel with the canal. Mi Yanbao, 35, is the leader of this deliverymen's team, at the Dawang Road delivery station. Every morning at 9:30 am, team members who work on the day shift get together for a meeting. Mi stands in front of the troop reviewing their performance from yesterday and focuses on improving their safety awareness. In total, there are 101 members at this station, and the other half of them are on the late night or morning shift. Those couriers will have a meeting every afternoon at 3 pm, Mi said, most of them are in their 30s."I'm not the youngest one of my peers. A man who was born in 1998 has quit his job and went back to his hometown in Henan Province a month ago," Chen said. Around 2,500 orders have been finished by his 101 members with zero negative comments from customers, Mi said, which put him in a good mood that morning. "There are over 200 Meituan delivery stations like us," he said.Symbiosis Employees have to work even in bad weather, because these are the times when people don't want to go outside and have meals. Last September, Wang Xiaofeng, the manager of Xiaoheng Dumplings which is one of the restaurants located in Wanda, in Beijing's Guomao area, decided to provide a resting space in their restaurant for Chen and his colleagues who are in charge of the area's orders. "It was too hot last summer, it's better for them to have a cooler place to take a break. The job itself is tough enough," said Wang adding that "We are all migrant workers and need to help each other." "They help us to deliver cuisine and we provide a shelter for them. It's a mutual benefit," a staff member named Xu Jinxing said. Meituan told the Global Times in an interview that currently they had over 0.6 million riders across China. According to Xinhua News Agency, Meituan has released a number showing that 93 percent of the deliverymen are migrant workers and 10 percent come from impoverished areas. "They have to rent homes and find somewhere cheaper to eat by themselves," Wang said and recalled some stories she heard from those riders. Some of them are trying to save money for their families and choose to have one meal a day. "Many restaurants will give deliverymen some discounts," said Chen. A woman surnamed Yu, an owner of a small restaurant, noted that they "volunteered to do that - to give a three to four yuan discount to them," which means they can have a meal with one choice of meat, two vegetables and a staple food for 12 yuan ($1.7).Transitional workOn October, 2017, Chen decided to become a deliveryman at Meituan in Beijing after his grandpa and father came down with serious diseases. Chen almost became the sole provider for all of his family at that time."It is said that if you are a hardy man, delivering waimai is a good choice to make quick and big money," Chen said. He rode through the streets in Beijing during the day and worked as a badminton coach teaching kids at night. "I could earn about 17 thousand a month at that time, and delivering food contributed to half of my salary," he said. "The basic salary and performance makes up my wage. The more orders you deliver, the more you can earn," Chen explained. Tao Zhiqi, who has worked for Dada-JD Daojia, an on-call citywide delivery platform, for almost a year, also sees it as transitional work. "I want to run my own restaurant in the coming years and bring my family here to Beijing," he said. The 33-year-old man from Gansu Province is trying to get more experience in the catering sector by delivering food. Nevertheless, there are still some people who stick to the job for years. Rong Xiaoqiang, 35, from Handan, Hebei Province, has worked as a Waimai Xiaoge for over three years. "My dream is to save enough money and to purchase a house in my hometown," he said. His wife quit her former job as a waitress a month ago. "I love this job as it gives me much flexibility and freedom," she said. It's a fast-paced job, and it's certainly not for everyone. "Some people quit after a couple of months or even a few weeks," Mi said.These people are young, with family responsibilities on their shoulders.Released by Meituan, 80 percent of the deliverymen are over 26 years old and half of them are married and have children, Xinhua News Agency reported. They left their hometown to fight for the future of their families. "It's harder than most people think. In winter, some of them cannot even move their hands after a long-time riding because of the cold," Xu said. As his father's condition improves, Chen is planning to resign. "It's not a life-long job," he said. After this Chinese New Year, he will return to Beijing, not as a deliveryman, but as a co-founder of a new badminton hall. "I didn't make it as a professional player a few years ago, and now I want a job related to my beloved sport," Chen said.  Conall Curran contributed to this story Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass Schellenberg trial shows Canada's arbitrary view of rule of lawChina's 'Underground Steel Great Wall' capable of defeating hypersonic weapon attacks: academicianPoland becoming a US accomplice 2019 Rose Parade held in PasadenaThe tide is turning: racists, bigots and sexists finally being held accountableNo country can dominate Africa How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐