A student from Huainan Vocational Education Center participates in a Chinese tea competition in Huainan, East China's Anhui Province, on Saturday. Photo: VCG
Alexander Kozlov, Consul General of the Russian Federation, Hong Kong SAR, feels that packing tea bags into his luggage and bringing them home as gifts for friends and colleagues is the "most burdensome" task of his diplomacy in Hong Kong. "My acquaintances in Russia love Chinese tea, they always ask me to bring some tea back," he said with a smile.Few Chinese know that tea time is one of the most joyful moments for Russians. Only learned historians know how much value the tea trade between China and Russia generated during the late imperial period of the two countries in the 19th century. The trade route, known as the "Tea Road," began from the port city of Wuhan, in Central China's Hubei Province, and ended in Moscow, located in the far northwest of Russia. The trading volume via the "Tea Road" once accounted 80 percent of total Russian imports in the early 19th century.Words cannot describe the importance of the "Tea Road" during the 19th century for both neighbors. This explains why Nicholas II of Russia (then Prince Nicholas) chose Wuhan, rather than Beijing, as the most important stop when he first visited China in 1891. The tea factories in Wuhan, jointly operated by Chinese and Russians, contributed huge profits to the Russian government. They represented one-third of the total state revenue for that year.Brew of yoreSince the "Tea Road" became a "revenue source," the cultural exchanges between Chinese and Russian people thrived for decades.  Leo Tolstoy described the prevalence of a "Culture of Tea" in his masterpiece War and Peace. According to the legendary Russian author, "having a cup of tea" was a symbol of peace and stability that civilians, during this age of war, were desperate for.Ironically, the revenue collected from the "Tea Road" was used to fund the wars in China during the early 20th century. So, "War and Peace" is not only the title of a novel but also the history of tea trade between China and Russia.However, it is human nature to seek peace instead of war. Therefore, the bitter memory of war faded quickly for Russians and Chinese, and the habit of "having a cup of tea" remains popular in Russia to this day. For Russians, especially the educated elite, holding a warm cup of tea in their hands creates a wonderful moment for sharing ideas.However, sharing ideas over a cup of tea is not Kozlov's style. "Tea helps reduce blood pressure, but my blood pressure is too low to have a cup of tea," he said shaking his head.Although tea is not for the Consul General, facilitating a new version of the "Tea Road" is taking shape between Hong Kong and Moscow; it is his major task in China. The Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU), first proposed by Russian President Vladimir Putin in early 2011, has greatly contributed to the integration of the regional economy since its founding in 2015. Meanwhile, China's Belt and Road initiative (BRI) is designed to coordinate with the EAEU through intensive infrastructure construction in the region.China Railway Express serves as a prime example of results that can be achieved when the EAEU and BRI come together. The international and trans-continental railway network in Eurasia has seen a dramatic increase in the shipment of cargo during the past five years. In 2011, it was only 17 trains of containers, but then the number leaped to 2,490 trains in the first half of 2018. It is estimated that the number will exceed 1 million containers annually in 2025.Meanwhile, e-commerce continues to expand rapidly, thanks to the economic integration of the region under the EAEU framework. It has been reported that in the first six months of 2018 , the Russian Post handled 30 percent more international packages and letters than in 2017, with the total number rising to 191 million items. Russian Post reported that "84 per cent of the parcels originated from China."High postal trafficAccording to Russian media, the reason behind the growth is the rise in popularity of e-commerce platforms. Mail.Ru's Pandao service, which focuses on Chinese goods, and American eBay topped the ranks. They were followed by Alibaba Group Holding's AliExpress and Latvian Joom, both of which offer products that are mostly made in China.Kozlov said that e-commerce between China and Russia is thriving. "In Russia, a great number of household appliances, such as air conditioners and refrigerators, are Chinese brands."The recent joint venture between Alibaba and Mail.Ru will most likely boost the market share of e-commerce services by providing a user-friendly, online platform for local consumers in Russia. Kozlov said that such cooperation is especially important because it benefits both countries. The miracle of the tea trade in the 19th century is being reborn in the form of railway services and mouse clicks in the 21st century.Earlier in March, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi announced in Beijing that "China has great confidence in its relations with Russia and their comprehensive strategic partnership is as unshakable as Mount Tai," one of the most famous mountains in China. Wang's words were not just rhetoric but rather a reflection of the status quo between the two powers. "There are no conflicts regarding the transfer of technology, even within the high-tech spheres of the military, outer space exploration or AI industry," said Kozlov. "Sino-Russian cooperation is all-inclusive, while the reporting continues to be lacking," said the diplomat. "While the world continues to engage in confrontation and competition, Russia and China have chosen to trust each other and fully cooperate! This is the difference and we will make a difference," Kozlov said with a smile. Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass China's new flying saucer-like stealth drone seen in first public flightIslamic communities urged to uphold sinicization, improve political stance9 months on: Are we closer to a trade deal? 2019 Rose Parade held in PasadenaThe tide is turning: racists, bigots and sexists finally being held accountableNo country can dominate Africa How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐