Giant Huawei billboard at the Warsaw Chopin Airport of Poland Photo: Shan Jie/GTChina's Huawei Technologies has been gaining popularity in Poland in recent years, and the country has become the company's center stage among 26 central, eastern and northern European countries. Its rapid expansion in the European country is also seen as a success story involving Chinese technology giants going abroad. The billboards of Huawei can be spotted frequently in Poland - at Warsaw Chopin Airport, the main junction of Krakow's city center and at a shopping mall in Katowice.The ads feature Robert Lewandowski, the country's soccer megastar, holding a Huawei Mate 20. The striker from German soccer giant FC Bayern Munich has been Huawei's ambassador in the Central-Eastern Europe, Baltic and Scandinavia region since 2015, according to the official website of Huawei.A taxi driver in Krakow who only gave his name as Piotr,  told a Global Times reporter who recently visited Poland that the Huawei smartphone he uses for navigation in business cost less than 1,000 Polish zloty ($267). "My Huawei is very good. It has all the functions I need," he said, admitting that with similar functions, the iPhone is a bit expensive for him.Some local residents see Huawei's rapid expansion in Poland as an example of the rise of Chinese high-technology companies overseas. Huawei cooperates with the main operators in Poland in various fields including wireless technology, optical networks, data communications and other activities. It has also become a strategic partner of local operators such as Orange, Polkomtel and T-Mobile. T-Mobile Polska, owned by Germany's Deutsche Telekom group, which reportedly claimed it launched the country's first 5G network in Warsaw. The operator is working with Huawei and plans to expand network coverage to other cities in the near future, industry market consultancy Telegeography said in December 2018. Chinese Ambassador to Poland Liu Guangyuan told the Global Times in a recent interview in that Huawei's technology is widely recognized among Polish people."Chinese companies also pay attention to social responsibility, promote localization, operate legally and participate in public welfare. They have contributed to the social and economic development of Poland," noted Liu.For some Chinese entrepreneurs in Poland, Huawei's presence in the local market is very successful. "From local telecom operators to the consumer end, it has widely deployed its businesses and services," a Chinese business representative in Poland, who preferred not to be identified, told the Global Times on Monday. While Poland is reportedly considering a ban on the use of Huawei products by public bodies and possible legislation to curtail their use by private citizens, China's Foreign Ministry has urged Poland to stop the groundless, unreasonable crackdown on Chinese companies, Hua Chunying, spokesperson of the ministry, told a press briefing on Monday. "Security problems should be based on facts, and it should decide whether a company will bring on security threats based on concrete evidence," Hua said. The Chinese company recently opened a store in Warsaw's Arkadia, its first showroom in Poland, which attracted nearly 20,000 people on the opening day, Yu Chengdong, CEO of Huawei's consumer business, said in a Weibo post on December 19, 2018. Newspaper headline: Popularity of Huawei growing in Poland Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass Poland becoming a US accomplice China's 'Underground Steel Great Wall' capable of defeating hypersonic weapon attacks: academicianIs Uncle Sam going to be the catalyst to another multifaceted global crisis? 2019 Rose Parade held in PasadenaThe tide is turning: racists, bigots and sexists finally being held accountableNo country can dominate Africa How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐