A profile of Huawei's chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou is displayed on a Huawei computer at a Huawei store in Beijing on Thursday. China demanded Meng's immediate release after she was arrested by Canadian authorities following an extradition request by the US. Photo: APChina on Tuesday urged the US to stop its unjustifiable crackdown on Huawei and immediately drop the arrest warrant for Huawei CFO Meng Wanzhou after the US Justice Department formally filed criminal charges against the Chinese company and Meng on Monday.The timing of the legal filing coincides with upcoming high-level trade talks between the two countries, which are set to take place on Wednesday and Thursday in Washington DC. The legal filing also creates uncertainty and lowers the expectations that the two sides can strike a deal to end the ongoing trade war. "For some time, the US has used its state power to discredit and crack down on specific Chinese companies in an attempt to stifle the legitimate operations of these enterprises. There are strong political motives and manipulations behind the US actions. We strongly urge the US to stop unjustifiable suppression of Chinese companies including Huawei, and treat Chinese enterprises objectively and fairly," said the Chinese foreign ministry in a statement on Tuesday. The foreign ministry said China will resolutely defend the legitimate rights of Chinese companies."We once again urge the US to immediately revoke the arrest warrant against Meng and not to issue a formal extradition request to avoid going further down the wrong path," it said. US Justice Department on Monday US Time accused Huawei of stealing trade secrets, obstructing justice and bank fraud by evading economic sanctions on Iran. Acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker also confirmed at a press conference that the Justice Department is seeking the extradition of Meng from Canada. Meng is also the daughter of Huawei founder Ren Zhengfei.China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) said on Tuesday that the US legal action against Huawei is "unfair" and doing so will not stop China from steadily deploying 5G networkTo smear or discredit a legitimate business without any concrete evidence is unfair, said Wen Ku, head the information and communication department of under the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, at a press conference in Beijing on Tuesday. Asked if the case will affect China's 5G development, Wen said the country will steadily deploy the next generation of wireless technologies and continue working with global partners.Chinese experts said the US is nervous and desperate as it attempts to crack down on a rising competitor that has made great achievements in sci-tech. They warned that China needs to prepare for a "long legal battle" to deal with continued unwarranted persecution and unreasonable attempts by the US. "Using judicial tools for political purposes is not a new tactic in US diplomacy when it desperately wants to crack down on its rival," said Diao Daming, a US studies expert at Renmin University of China in Beijing."Chinese government and Huawei need to make the truth about US tricks clear to the world. The US is obviously getting nervous about the achievements Chinese firms have gained in the sci-tech area," Diao told the Global Times on Tuesday.It's time for Huawei to fight US accusations in court, Fu Liang, Beijing-based telecom industry expert, told the Global Times on Tuesday."Huawei said it has been operating in strict compliance with applicable laws, so the turnout of the legal battle may not be what the US has expected. One thing is for sure, Huawei is not ZTE," Fu said.ZTE, which is one of the top telecom equipment vendors worldwide, struggled last year after the US Department of Commerce activated a denial order in April against the Chinese company. ZTE reached a settlement with the US in June, under which it agreed to pay a $1 billion penalty, put $400 million in an escrow account, and replace its entire senior management team in exchange for the US lifting the ban."It will be a long battle for Huawei, but the case will have limited impact on the company, as it is not run only by Meng. They will act and respond to these charges through legal procedures," said Xiang Ligang, chief executive of telecom industry news site cctime.com. Meng still has opportunities to fight her extradition through legal procedures, Xiang noted.The longstanding US-Canada extradition treaty requires that an offense for which extradition is sought to be a crime in both countries, also known as the principle of double criminality, Long Z. Liu, an attorney licensed in California, told the Global Times, suggesting that Meng's alleged conduct is not a crime in Canada, and as such the requirement for extradition cannot be met.  The US department also announced charges Monday against Huawei for allegedly stealing trade secrets from T-Mobile. The charges stem from a civil trade secrets lawsuit filed by T-Mobile in 2014 over a robot called "Tappy," which was used in testing smartphones, CNBC reported. Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass Canada must not extradite Meng WanzhouFrance's reported block of Huawei is "almost a scandal"How to correctly read China's GDP figure 2019 Rose Parade held in PasadenaThe tide is turning: racists, bigots and sexists finally being held accountableNo country can dominate Africa How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐