A general view of Pennsylvania Avenue from the Wilson Center, Washington, DC Photo: Xing Xiaojing/GTGlobally, there are 7,815 think tanks, with the US harboring 1,872. Among those, 397 think tanks are located in Washington DC. The 2017 Global Go To Think Tank Index Report issued by the University of Pennsylvania found that research, analysis capabilities and policy influence of US think tanks remain leading internationally. The Massachusetts Avenue in DC, more widely known as the Think Tank Row, has been regarded as the "fourth power" outside of the US administrative, legislative and judicial circles.Although the government has the final say in policy, think tanks are indispensable in policymaking, as they play roles including analysis of feasibility, implementation details and predicting results.The think tanks in the Row are undoubtedly the leaders of US think tanks as they are believed to have direct access to the government. They help the government promote and publicize new policies and collect feedback from academic and private voices. With the quick rise of China in recent years, think tanks in this cluster are interacting more with Chinese experts. On the avenue, people can easily find visiting Chinese scholars and more Chinese restaurants compared with decades ago, the Global Times found. Before being interviewed by the Global Times, Derek Scissors, professor of the American Enterprise Institute, saw off Wang Jisi, president of the Institute of International and Strategic Studies of Peking University, who visited him.A 'revolving door'As the US government often absorbs scholars as officials, every US presidential election comes with some scholars becoming cabinet officials. For example, Kevin Hassett, now chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, was with the conservative think tank American Enterprise Institute.Jeffrey Bader, formerly a consultant on Asia with the Brookings Institution, joined the Obama administration along with dozens of other scholars. And now he is back to Brookings after Obama left office. Elaine Chao, current US Secretary of Transportation, served as the labor minister in the Bush administration and later became a distinguished scholar at the Heritage Foundation before retaking the government post. The "revolving door" never stops as think tank researchers with government work experience and rich connections will find they have an upper hand. The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, which commemorates Woodrow Wilson, the only US president with a PhD, has an independent board of directors, but the board is appointed by the US president or federal government officials, which is very different from other US think tanks. Abraham Denmark, a former senior Pentagon official and now Director of the Asia Program at the Center, told the Global Times the Center's funding comes mainly from congressional grants, foundations, corporate and personal donations. Congress grants vary from year to year, with $12 million in financial support in 2018, accounting for one-third of the full-year budget."We work closely with the White House, the Department of State, the Pentagon, the Treasury Department, we talk to those officials all the time, we make sure that our research and events are covering issues that are important to them," Denmark told the Global Times. "We make an effort to be non-partisan, to be a safe space, so that people from across all perspectives can get together to talk about the issues." Donations are an important source of income of all think tanks. To ensure independence is not affected, US think tanks strictly control the amount of subsidies received from the US government or foreign states, and some just simply do not accept them."Our money is 100 percent private funding … We get no foreign government money and zero US government money. We determine our research objectives in cooperation with our management of our board," said Walter Lohman, director of The Heritage Foundation's Asian Studies Center.The Foundation has about 500,000 members, each of them donates sums ranging from $25 to $3 million per year, totaling approximately $80 million. The Foundation and the Board of Directors decide the direction of research and topics.This also works for the American Enterprise Institute, which Scissors said has an annual budget of about $40 million, with 70 percent coming from about 1,200 people.Invisible handThough the think tanks brand themselves as independent, non-profit and non-partisan organizations, their complicated interaction with consortium and government make it impossible for them to be on their own.Take US Vice President Mike Pence's speech in October last year as an example. It was held at the Hudson Institute rather than in the White House as Michael Pillsbury, director for Chinese strategy of the Institute, is widely considered one of President Donald Trump's top advisers on China.Pillsbury served several US governments since the Nixon administration, and was once a senior official in the Pentagon. In his decades of research on China, his hawkish ideas have acquired prominence over time. He told the Global Times he is half hawkish and half dovish, denying he has direct impact on Trump's policymaking on China.  But Scissors believes that the work of 73-year-old Pillsbury deserves credit as his ideas align with Trump's changing thoughts on China. "He [Trump] needs a simpler view for political reasons and Pillsbury has that kind of view," Scissors said. With China's rise, there is no doubt that those US think tanks will step up their research on China, and their ultimate direction will apparently depend on the invisible hand behind them. Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass J-16 fighter jet stealth-capable, able to carry all types of Chinese air-to-surface weaponsXi extends Spring Festival greetings to non-Communist parties, personagesForcing allies to pick sides, US destabilizes world order Chinese runner to finish pole-to-pole trekLA teachers strike shows failure of America's public school system2019 Rose Parade held in Pasadena How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐