Sri Lankan Ambassador to China Karunasena Kodituwakku Photo: Cui Meng/GT Sri Lanka will soon sign a concessional loan agreement with the Export-Import Bank of China to borrow $1 billion to fund a major highway from Colombo to its second largest city Kandy, the Sri Lankan Ambassador said.Karunasena Kodituwakku, Sri Lankan Ambassador to China, said on the sidelines of a National Day media briefing at the embassy in Beijing on Tuesday that the money will be used for the first stage of the central highway. The second stage will be financed by Sri Lankan consortiums and the third by Japanese loans. The chief of Sri Lanka's central bank had earlier said the country will receive a sovereign loan of $1 billion from Bank of China in the first quarter of this year, and it will be used to meet repayments in the coming months, read a Reuters report on January 17. Kodituwakku didn't confirm with the Global Times if it was the same loan and whether it is linked with the $1 billion loan from the Export-Import Bank of China.The envoy expressed gratitude to China which he said provided assistance in both long-term project loans and day-to-day needs. He revealed that the country is negotiating with China Development Bank for short-term loans. Kodituwakku slammed Western media allegations that China's financial assistance to Sri Lanka has led it into a debt trap. "We don't agree with that. China never forced us to take a loan … If there is something wrong with the loans we have taken, it's our responsibility. It's not fair to blame China or another country, saying Sri Lanka is a victim," he said. The diplomat said though the country has borrowed from many countries, including India and Japan, as well as multilateral organizations, it is not heavily indebted. He emphasized that it's on Sri Lanka's request that China provided funds, especially the development assistance. This year Sri Lanka has to settle nearly $4 billion, and the country has more than $8 billion in reserves. "But we cannot use all that money just to pay back. We have to keep a minimum balance," he said. According to the ambassador, Colombo port is a very crucial transit port serving India. India's strong economy will prop up the port as a successful entity. He hopes Chinese firms can turn the Hambantota port into a successful facility. Sri Lanka's economy suffered as the country experienced a political crisis last October when the president suddenly sacked the prime minister who was reinstated seven weeks later. Credit rating agencies including Fitch and Standard & Poor's then downgraded Sri Lanka for refinancing risks, Reuters said. To alleviate the financial crisis, Kodituwakku said the country temporarily suspended import of motor vehicles for public servants last year.He added that the long-term objective is to increase exports. The country's import bill was $21 billion, but exports amounted to only $12 billion in 2018. The large gap was partly filled by Sri Lankan people working all over the world who contributed about $7 billion in remittances to the country, said Kodituwakku.Last October, Sri Lanka received orders worth at least $15 million at the China International Import Expo (CIIE)."We would like to enhance exports to the Chinese market," he said, adding the items could include tea, jam, vegetables and fish products, and natural rubber-based products. "We also invite more Chinese investors to invest in Sri Lanka. Sri Lankan exports have concessional access to US, Indian and European markets. They can come to take advantage of these opportunities," he added. Sri Lanka is in talks with China on a free trade agreement. "They have reached consensus on many issues, but [the agreement] isn't finalized," said the ambassador. "We hope this year will be the critical year to finalize it." According to Kodituwakku, Sri Lanka will celebrate its upcoming National Day, which is also the country's Independence Day, on February 4. Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass J-16 fighter jet stealth-capable, able to carry all types of Chinese air-to-surface weaponsXi extends Spring Festival greetings to non-Communist parties, personagesForcing allies to pick sides, US destabilizes world order Chinese runner to finish pole-to-pole trekLA teachers strike shows failure of America's public school system2019 Rose Parade held in Pasadena How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐