People demonstrate against the economic measures of Argentine government, in Buenos Aires on Thursday. Photo: VCGAs previous economic heavyweights like Turkey, Brazil and South Africa face crippling inflation amid recession in pockets of the globe, Argentina, one of the world's southernmost states, is in the grip of a serious economic crisis.Most Argentinians that the Global Times interviewed believe that faulty economic and political policies are to be blamed though the role of external factors can't be ruled out. The Argentinian peso has plunged, resulting in shooting inflation and low purchasing power. It takes more than 1,000 pesos ($27) to take a taxi from the Ezeiza International Airport in Buenos Aires to the downtown of the capital, compared to only 300 pesos five years ago. At the beginning of 2018, the exchange rate of the US dollar to Argentine peso was around 1:18; but at the end of 2018 it had reached nearly 1:38.Peso plungeFor 70-year-old lady Moriones, the dramatic change in the exchange rate cost her beach holidays in Rio de Janeiro."I and my husband had planned to travel to Brazil for a holiday, but peso plunged hugely in August, which made my original savings not enough for a trip," she told the Global Times. "I have to cancel the plan and stay at home."She is not the only Argentinian to suffer from the peso plunge. The Argentine middle class, which often chose to travel abroad, now has to abandon traditional resorts in Brazil, the US and Italy, and relax in the remote villages and towns around the capital Buenos Aires, with their shopping spree at a halt. Even media has published guidelines to help people handle the fluctuating exchange rate.Traveling with more cash or using debit cards are recommended rather than using credit cards, or people have to pay a higher fee due to the rapid depreciation of the peso. "When you can choose to pay in local currency or peso, please choose the peso without hesitation," a magazine special reads. Change of depositThe rapid plunge of peso has also affected bank deposits. Foreign exchange deposits were once only available to the upper middle class, but now have become popular among ordinary people.Joaquin, a 22-year-old male nurse, told the Global Times that every time when he saves a little money, he immediately converts it into US dollars, saying this is the only way to "make the money count."Moriones, who used to store cash under the mattress during the previous economic crisis, said she now has to deposit the money in banks. "It is risky to keep cash at home as public security is decreasing," she said. "I have experienced rounds of economic crisis and I really don't want to see one more in old age … but it is coming."Like Joaquin, many Argentinians have curtailed expenses."I didn't have any purchase plan because the wallet has shrunk," he told the Global Times. "Going to shops but not buying things is the cheapest way to save money." Less beefArgentina was once a world leader in beef consumption, but now the crisis has hit the tradition.According to Reuters report citing the country's beef industry chamber, in September 2018, Argentine beef prices rose 39 percent over the same period in 2017. Per person annual meat consumption is only 49 kilograms - down 17 percent from August - the lowest in the last six decades. Most Argentinians see eating beef as a part of their cultural identity, but now some of them have to switch to wheat food and chicken. For Argentine President Mauricio Macri, the recession means a hefty challenge for him in the October 2019 general election. "Everything is in recession in this country, people who work hard can't have a decent life anymore," a man in his fifties requesting anonymity told the Global Times.Reasons to blame Although people blame the government for their dissatisfaction with the economy and livelihood, the cause of the economic storm that is sweeping through Argentina today is far from simple. According to Juan Miguel Massot, a professor and economist at the University of Salvador in Argentina, the root cause of the "dark moment" originated in 2007."Between 2007 and 2015, the government focused all its efforts on increasing domestic consumption, but ignored the importance of increasing private and public investment," he told the Global Times. "It led to no significant increase in Argentina's production and export capacities, which in turn led to an overheated economy and imbalance in international payment." Massot added that since 2016, the government's radical changes in private investment and increasing openness to foreign investment has boosted the confidence of investors."But it failed to absorb the economic and social costs of radical change, and the solution to historical debt can only be to borrow more, which finally led to the gradual deterioration in the Argentine economy in the second half of 2017 before it turned into stagflation and exchange rate crisis in 2018," he said. Chinese supportThe US Federal Reserve's interest rate hike in April 2018 led to a strong appreciation of the US dollar, triggering the flow of funds to the US dollar zone and plunge of currencies in newly emerged markets like Argentina. Given the fragile economic situation in the country, short-term profitability is worrying. As well as the "black history" of past debt defaults and forced nationalization, most American and European countries are reluctant to make large-scale investments in the country. That makes some Argentinians look to the other side of the world for investment."The government's top priority is to attract more stable international investment," Ernest Taboada, executive director of the Argentine-Chinese Chamber of Production, Industry and Commerce, told the Global Times, noting Chinese investment could help boost Argentina's economy."Chinese companies tend to focus on longer-term development rather than a country's temporary economic difficulties," said Taboada, adding that China's large-scale projects often come with financing support from Chinese policy banks which means that debt-affected Argentina will not be troubled to borrow money in the international market."China's investment will indeed grow in the short term and the areas it is involved in will also expand," Massot said. "But the key point is whether Argentina's economic situation will benefit both sides equally and how long this cooperation will last." Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass Poland becoming a US accomplice China's 'Underground Steel Great Wall' capable of defeating hypersonic weapon attacks: academicianIs Uncle Sam going to be the catalyst to another multifaceted global crisis? 2019 Rose Parade held in PasadenaThe tide is turning: racists, bigots and sexists finally being held accountableNo country can dominate Africa How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐