○ Chinese TV series become popular in countries with similar family-oriented cultures, fail in West○ Domestic companies invest heavily in professional translation to avoid potential offense○ Government develops cooperative schemes for export of programming to build a good image of China

Empresses in the Palace Photo: VCG
Lihn, a Vietnam woman, recently became a big fan of Chinese actor Zhao Youting, who stars in the Chinese costume TV series To the Sky Kingdom. She bought the same outfit that Zhao wears, and claims that if Zhao would marry her, she would dump her French husband immediately. This is a reflection of Vietnamese people's love for Chinese TV dramas. The period drama To the Sky Kingdom featuring "immortal love" and "battles against demons," quickly spread across Southeast Asia. The Chinese drama has won a growing market share with its neighbors since 2016. On video streaming websites such as Viki and DramaFever, thousands of Southeast Asian viewers are glued to their screens watching Chinese dramas with subtitles, and interacting with others in commenting on plot and performance. Subtitle translators from all over the world volunteer to translate new episodes.According to data from the National Radio and Television Administration, since 2012, more than 1,600 quality Chinese films and TV shows are exported to more than 100 countries and translated into 36 languages, including English, French, Russian and Arabic. Most of them go primarily to Asian countries such as Japan, South Korea and other regions with similar cultures. Chinese dramas that are exported tend to feature topics that are mundane. Subtitle translators are cautious about not causing inadvertent offense.Popular genresChinese costume dramas have always been dominant in television exports to other countries. "For quality, Chinese mainland's costume dramas are the best in the world, and the overseas market has a high demand for costume dramas," Ada, a South Korean volunteer who translates the Chinese drama Nirvana in Fire into Korean, told the Global Times.In 2016, this costume drama, which has caught fire in China, successfully broke into the film and television markets in Japan and South Korea. A South Korean travel agency even launched a tour themed on the drama.Xin Aihua, the manager of  the Translation and Production Center of StarTimes, a Chinese electronics and media company with a presence in Africa, is familiar with Chinese TV series in the African market. 

The Palace and Nirvana Photo: VCG
She told the Global Times that the sense of fantasy brought about by period dramas featuring immortals and swordsmen has always attracted African audiences. However, costume dramas based on pure historical stories are less popular, because foreign audiences who don't know Chinese history  have difficulty following the complex plots.Apart from the traditional costume genre, family dramas have made an impact in recent years in both neighboring countries and Africa. As China and many Asian countries share similarities in culture, it is quite easy for those audiences to understand and empathize with characters in Chinese dramas and the ways they handle certain situations. "Africans, like us, also place a lot of emphasis on family harmony. It is very common to see generations living under the same roof in Africa," Xin told the Global Times."Many situations in Chinese family dramas resonate with African female audiences. They wonder how women in other countries would handle similar headaches. The drama serves as an important window for them to understand Chinese culture," Xin said.Additionally, as 2018 marked the 40th anniversary of reform and opening-up, stories about Chinese entrepreneurs' hard work are starting to win the fancy of global viewers. "As the Chinese model and Chinese experience are attracting more attention from around the world, overseas audiences are increasingly demanding stories reflecting the struggles of the Chinese people," said Wu Jiaping, producer of Feather Flies into the Sky, a drama that explores these themes.Translation tactics Xin Aihua has been engaged in the translation of Chinese dramas for seven years. She says that due to different cultural backgrounds, if the translation is improper, the audience in the destination country may be confused about the content, and what's more, the translation may cause offense.Xin, giving an example, cites a line in a Chinese TV series in which the heroine complains that she is "tanned" and "doesn't look good in a wedding dress." This reflects the admiration of fair skin of some Chinese women. But facing African audiences, it is obviously inappropriate to say "black" is "not beautiful," which requires more consideration."Moreover, we are very cautious to avoid passing certain Chinese ideologies to audiences in the host country. For instance, when a character sings a patriotic song with lyrics of 'what great socialism,' we turn the words into 'what a wonderful world' and it works great for African audiences," said Xin.Subtitle dubbing to other languages is done from English. A glossary has been prepared to standardize the frequently used words. All the translated scripts are revised by both native speakers and Chinese senior editors to reduce cultural misunderstanding, and also to make the dialogue more colloquial. Xin says that the lack of professional talent in film and television translation, especially in rare languages, is the main difficulty faced by their team.International cooperationThe boom of popularity in Chinese dramas in the international market greatly benefits from national support and policies. In October, a number of Chinese films were screened simultaneously in Thailand, Laos, Myanmar, Cambodia and other ASEAN countries. The launch of the films in Myanmar helps the local people better understand China and Chinese cinema.Zhang Wenwen, the vice director of the China Global Television Network (CGTN) Southeast Asia regional center, told the Global Times that in recent years, the export of Chinese films and TV series to Myanmar has been an important mission. Thanks to rise of Myanmar's private media, CGTN started to consider how to make Chinese culture more accessible to ordinary people, and to establish the image of China as a friendly neighbor. "TV shows are a very good starting point," Zhang said.Since 2012, CGTN has been negotiating with Myanmar Radio and Television (MRTV) on cooperation over TV series. With the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of China and the National Radio and Television Administration, CGTN introduced the TV series We Love You, Mr Jin to Myanmar. Before that, Chinese TV series had never been dubbed into Myanmese. Myanmese actors basically lacked rich dubbing experience. "In the past, foreign dramas broadcast in Myanmar were dubbed by only one dubbing actor for all different characters," Zhang told the Global Times. To make the Myanmese audiences feel closer to the drama, CGTN decided to invite actors from Myanmar to China for dubbing training. "Finally, We Love You, Mr Jin, dubbed into Myanmese, achieved great success in Myanmar," said Zhang. 

Despite the success of many Chinese series in Asia and Africa, domestic TV dramas entering into European and American countries are normally not well received. Zhao Yifang, founder and president of Huace Film and TV Group, a leading enterprise in film and television exports, said, "The returns in the international market are not always positive.""Even if it is difficult, we still need to promote Chinese programming, because China's national strength and international image are constantly improving, and foreigners are starting to be interested in our national culture," Zhao said."From the perspective of cultural communication, promoting our series overseas is a chance to let the world to understand Chinese culture," Zhao said.

 
 Newspaper headline: The right message Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass Which country is set to lead on 5G development?100th Wing Loong armed reconnaissance drone to be delivered to international clientCanadian defendant to stand trial for drug smuggling in China No country can dominate AfricaChinese students in US overwhelmed by soaring tuition feesSearch Angels of Paradise How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐