The Shape-shifter: the Multiverse of Wallace Chan exhibition at Christie's Hong Kong gallery on Friday Photo: Courtesy of Cherry Rao 

Wallace Chan Photo: Courtesy of Cherry Rao   

Now and Always (2013) by Wallace Chan Photo: Courtesy of Cherry Rao A solemn face of a goddess, as white as marble, sat in a piece of pure blue topaz. Her soft feminine face and hair, magically reflected in the jewel's five facets, looked as if they were floating in a blue ocean.   When a German dealer spotted Wallace Chan's Horae, named after the ancient Greek goddesses of the seasons, the dealer became so excited that he decided there and then to bring the work to the 1991 Intergem Fair and the Deutsches Edelstein Museum in Germany. The technique in which the Horae's face in multiple facets became known as the Wallace Cut, which in turn propelled its Hong Kong-based inventor to international fame. In 2014, Chan became the first Asian jeweler to exhibit his works at the Biennale des Antiquaires in Paris. On Monday, a new exhibition of Chan's masterpieces spanning more than 45 years debuted at the Christie's Hong Kong gallery. Titled Shape-shifter: the Multiverse of Wallace Chan, the exhibition is set to run until January 25. Pushing boundariesIn an e-mail interview with the New York Times in 2015, Francois Curiel, the former chairman of Christie's Asia-Pacific, said Chan "has the curiosity, courage and, above all, the talents to push boundaries, artistically and geographically." "I want to challenge myself. I will abandon my previous ideas and return to the state of a child who needs to study and improve every day," Chan told the Global Times in an interview on Saturday.After Wallace Cut jewelry went on display at the exhibition in Germany, one German company began making similar pieces while claiming the technique as their own. Chan had to take the company to court to protect his intellectual property. Winning the case in a Switzerland court, Chan was proud to earn fame for Chinese jewelry artists who often were accused of copying Western techniques. However, even after this experience, he has never considered applying for patents to protect his innovations as he is confident that his artistic achievements in jewelry design is not that easy to copy. Additionally, he said he would rather focus on creating something new rather than spending time and energy in preventing his old pieces from being copied."I am always on the road of innovation," said Chan. During an appearance on the CCTV4 TV program Chinese World in 2014, the interviewer asked, "What's your next target?""I am still in the process of taking a leap. I won't announce my target until I have reached it. Otherwise, I may disappoint you if I don't realize that ambition," Chan replied.    At the Christie's exhibition, one blue ring named A New Generation is on display. Light runs elegantly across the sapphires, diamonds and porcelain that make up the piece. The porcelain is of particular note, as this was the target he was talking about in the Chinese World interview. Five times harder than steel, Chinese and international media began referring to it as "unbreakable porcelain."     "My innovation allows me to achieve imaginative and free jewelry design. If I use innovation just to earn more wealth, I will become trapped by material desire. My desire is actually artistic innovation, creating more spiritual value instead of accumulating material fortune."  Cultural identitySporting a long gray beard, Chan is usually clad in traditional Chinese clothing, which makes him look like a Taoist priest. When talking about his creative philosophy, he mentioned Chinese culture's respect for nature and the classic Taoist concept of tiandiren (Heaven, Earth and Man).  "Heaven is the thing that humans must respect. Earth is also the thing that we should honor and the third place goes to Man, our ancestors," he explained during an interview with Propeller TV, a cable network that covers Chinese culture and life, at the Masterpiece London Art Fair in 2016.In March 2018, Chan was invited by The Paris Institute of Political Studies, or Sciences Po, to deliver a speech to students at the School of Management and Innovation. In an article on the school's website, Elia Sommerlad, a Master's student at the school, said, "Mr. Chan's discourse was stimulating in a kaleidoscopic kind of way - it was a skillful mélange of entrepreneurial wisdom and artistry. The visual identity of the soiree was impeccable; the photography of Chan's creations and the short film featuring his artworks was enchanting."Chan believes culture is the ultimate and most influential part in jewelry design. "Westerners cannot easily cook authentic Chinese cuisine, and vice versa," he noted. Although one of the mythological Greek goddesses was depicted in Chan's work, Chan attributes most of the success of that particular piece to his technique, the Wallace Cut, rather than the cultural connections that were on display. Traditional Chinese imagery often makes its way into Chan's works, such as cicadas, Chinese dragons, dragonflies and butterflies. In the interview with Propeller TV, Chan happily explained that in Chinese traditional culture cicadas represent rebirth and wisdom. The respect for the nature and spirituality is why Chan feels that wearing jewelry is a way for people to show their respect for nature and build a connection with it. "People are not just wearing precious gems, but the memories of the Earth," he noted.  Newspaper headline: Always an innovator Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass Schellenberg trial shows Canada's arbitrary view of rule of lawChina's 'Underground Steel Great Wall' capable of defeating hypersonic weapon attacks: academicianPoland becoming a US accomplice 2019 Rose Parade held in PasadenaThe tide is turning: racists, bigots and sexists finally being held accountableNo country can dominate Africa How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐