Two men whip tops at Longtan Park in Beijing on January 23. Photo: Li Hao/GT

An Ice Cuqiu Photo: Li Hao/GTWrapping his whip around a wooden top, 60-something Huang Shumin bent his knees and got ready to cast the top across the ice. Raising his left arm and then bending it near his chest, he forcefully pulled his whip with his right arm sending the top spinning, then continued to whip it with all his strength to keep it dancing.Huang has been a great fan of tops since he was a little boy. Enjoying his leisure time after retirement, he came to Longtan Park in Beijing on January 23 to represent the Changping district with his teammates at the Jingjinji (Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region) Ethnic Sports Program Presentation and Communication. After years of development, the Beijing Association for Traditional Sports of Nationalities organized the event to present and promote seven traditional ethnic sports among folklore experts and PE teachers from universities, middle and high schools in the Jingjinji region. Wang Wei, the chairwoman of the Beijing Association for Traditional Sports of Nationalities, told the Global Times that one of the primary purposes for the presentation was to introduce and promote traditional ice and snow sports to PE classes.     Ice CuqiuIce Cuqiu is a recently developed sport with roots in a traditional winter game from the Qing Dynasty (1644-1911). On one side of the open square ice playground at Longtan Park, two teams gathered on rectangular play fields, each 12 meters long and two meters wide. Similar to curling, the two opposing sides competed in kicking five pucks called Ice Cuqiu into three concentric circles in the middle of the play field, with scores determined by how close the pucks get to the center. Ice Cuqiu pucks are hemispheres with flat steel bottoms that allow them to slide smoothly on the ice. With blue or red plastic bodies depending on team, they all have a small hole at the top since during the Qing Dynasty these pucks were actually the round iron "fire caps" on coal-burning stoves used by Chinese families in northern China.It was said that the Qianlong Emperor's fourth daughter had difficulty playing games since she was born with webbed fingers that made it hard to use her hands. To please the princess, one minister introduced the folk game of kicking the "fire cap" over the ice to her. After the princess got married, kicking the "fire cap" was still her favorite sport and became a regular recreational activity at her new mansion, which was located in today's Xicheng district in Beijing. Led by folklore expert Zhao Shu, this traditional recreational activity has evolved into a modern sport. In 2015, Ice Cuqiu was presented at the Beijing Shichahai Lake Ice and Snow Sports Cultural Festival, gaining wide attention from domestic and foreign media, which to some degree contributed to Beijing's successful bid for the 2022 Winter Olympic Games.Ice sledding and whipping ice topsIce sledding and playing with ice tops are common winter activities in China. If you go to either Beihai Park or Shichahai Lake in January, you are sure to see people playing on the ice with all kinds of ice sleds. Some sleds look like bikes, while others consist of two or three chairs with blades on the bottom that have been tied together so visitors can have fun with their companions. Out of all of these, however, it was the single blade ice sled, traditional to Northeast China that was presented at the Longtan Park. Although this sled is simpler than others, it is much more challenging to control. Riders need to put their feet on a single small wooden board and squat down on their heels, so good balance is key. Two wooden poles with an iron nail at the end are used to propel the rider across the ice.Playing with tops is another traditional activity and probably one of the oldest in China. The earliest unearthed top in China dates back to the Neolithic Age. The top game Huang was taking part in required him to start off at one corner of an ice square and whip the top to the other three corners. At each corner, he had to keep the top spinning in place for at least three seconds before finally whipping it to the center of the square and keeping it spinning in place for a final three seconds. Whoever does this the fastest wins. Other traditional sports that evolved on ice were also at the event. For example, mushe and chuiwan are two recreational activities that date back to the Tang (618-907) and Song (960-1279) dynasties respectively. The two games, one similar to bowling and the other golf, were played on the ground in ancient times, now the Beijing Association for Traditional Sports of Nationalities has decided to bring these two traditional sports to the ice.While the association wants to revive these Chinese traditional winter sports and introduce them to students, Wang pointed out that one major roadblock in achieving this is the lack of appropriate facilities such as ice rinks at schools.Newspaper headline: Culture on ice Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass J-16 fighter jet stealth-capable, able to carry all types of Chinese air-to-surface weaponsXi extends Spring Festival greetings to non-Communist parties, personagesForcing allies to pick sides, US destabilizes world order Chinese runner to finish pole-to-pole trekLA teachers strike shows failure of America's public school system2019 Rose Parade held in Pasadena How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐