Megan Richards, director, Directorate-General for Energy, European Commission Photo: Li Hao/GTEditor's Note:Energy has always been an important aspect of governments' policies in the international spectrum and has never stopped influencing the livelihood of the people. The Global Times (GT) talked with Megan Richards (Richards), director, Directorate-General for Energy, European Commission, who discussed the petrodollar system, EU's special purpose vehicle (SPV) towards Iranian oil and China's renewable energy collaboration with the EU.GT: For a long time, the petrodollar system has dominated the global energy market, which not only gives the US pricing power in the energy market, but also consolidates the hegemony of the dollar. How sustainable do you think this system would be for the world's energy market?Richards: We think one important thing in the context of the international energy market is that the euro should be utilized more in this sector. The euro has been around for at least 20 years and it has growing importance, and we would like to increase its use as an international trading currency particularly in the energy sector. The European Commission has recently been discussing improvement and increasing the role of the euro. But we have also prepared a recommendation of an increased use of the euro in energy transactions. Because even though only a small percentage of our imports of oil or gas into the European Union (EU) come from the US, about 80 percent of the contracts are denominated in dollars and I think this is the time to change and to see how we can increase the use of the euro. Now we are discussing with financial market experts and the energy traders on how we can put this into place and make it more active.GT: The EU is creating a SPV to help facilitate the exchange of Iranian oil and gas with EU goods, thereby circumventing the US sanctions. According to the scheme, the SPV would have taken place in late 2018, but no result has been seen so far. Can you tell us more about that?Richards: That's an interesting question, because the SPV is one of the elements of what we were doing in the context of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), which Europe is very much trying to keep. We think the JCPOA is a particularly important instrument to limit the nuclear capability of Iran and we have been working to maintain focus on its commitments and make sure Europe honors its commitments in that context as well.The US has increased its sanctions on Iran and introduced them gradually. We have a few exemptions from both sanctions for some countries in Europe and they have been allowed to continue trading in Iranian oil for a short period of time. We don't know how long that's going to last.The idea of the SPV is to protect and promote the legitimate interests of Iran, presuming also that Iran continues to meet its obligations and commitments under the JCPOA. The JCPOA is supposed to enable sanctions to facilitate European exporters and importers to pursue legitimate trade include oil exports from Iran and [other] imports from Europe, because there were many European countries that started to increase their trade with Iran on the basis of the JCPOA treaty. The work [of SPV] is continuing to advance, [and currently] we don't have any more details, but the countries are working very hard to try to make this work.GT: According to the International Energy Agency's report for 2018, in the development of various renewable energy sources, solar energy will continue to lead the global growth of renewable energy generation in the next five years. China is the leader in solar power, with almost 40 percent of the world's installed solar capacity by 2023, ahead of the US and India. How will the EU and China work together in further collaborations in solar energy?Richards: We have a number of areas where we will work together. First, is research and technological innovation which is a very interesting area because China, as you said, has a huge installed capacity and we are both leaders in renewable energy. Also, Europe focuses not only on solar energy, but wind and geothermal energy as well. Another area where we have huge potential for further collaboration is in the development of related regulatory framework. So, it's one thing to generate the renewable energy and it's another thing to integrate it and this is one of the challenges of renewable energy.We have changed our regulatory framework in Europe, introduced new legislation that makes it much easier to integrate renewables into the grid, increased the importance and ability of digitalization, made that integration easier and better, increased decentralization of the generation of solar power and put consumers in a stronger position to be able to generate their renewable energy and also feed it back into the grid and use demand response to take energy from the grid when prices are low. This is market-based and legislature-based that allows better integration of renewables and this is an area where we work very closely with China to try to use some of those principles that we have seen to be important in European legislation in China to help balance and make sure that integration works better.GT: Renewable energies have a huge untapped potential in tackling climate change, but the right policies and strict sustainability regulations will be the key to realizing their full potential. Some believe that it is more of a political than technical challenge that lies ahead. How do you see it?Richards: I think it consists of both challenges. It's true that there is a political challenge, but there are also technical challenges and in order to get the technical challenges addressed, you have to have political willpower to push forward with the right legislative framework. This is something that we have been quite successful so far in Europe to get a really ambitious, successful and market-based adjustment of the integration of renewables. Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass Canada must not extradite Meng WanzhouFrance's reported block of Huawei is "almost a scandal"How to correctly read China's GDP figure 2019 Rose Parade held in PasadenaThe tide is turning: racists, bigots and sexists finally being held accountableNo country can dominate Africa How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐