Sun sits atop his Monkey King mech. Photo: Courtesy of Sun Shiqian  

Sun Shiqian poses for a photo with an Iron Man mask signed by Stan Lee at his Beijing studio. Photo: Li Hao/GT "Mommy, is that real? Does it really live somewhere?" These are common questions most kids ask their parents after watching robot-themed TV shows and films such as the Transformers series. When we were children, we all liked to believe such robots were real, but as we grew up we slowly left this belief behind, that is except for Sun Shiqian, who is now building a robot for the annual CCTV Spring Festival New Year Gala, a huge national-level broadcast.A few weeks ago, the upper torso of a life-sized Bumblebee robot was put on display at the Chinese premiere of the Paramount Transformers prequel Bumblebee. Able to move its head, arms and fingers as well as "speak," the robot, made by Sun and his team with permission from Paramount, astonished Bumblebee lead actor John Cena. "It can speak!... I could not believe it… It is so real," Cena says in a video in which he shows fans the robot. Realizing a childhood dream The 34-year old Sun has been building robots since he was a child. However, it wasn't until he was in college that he built his first large-sized robot: a two-meter tall Transformer named Metroplex. Like any other boy, Sun was fascinated by the US Transformers cartoon after it entered the Chinese mainland during the late 1980s. Unable to afford any of the Transformers toys back then, Sun turned to using cardboard to make his own. Today, Sun runs his own studio, SSQ, where he makes his childhood dream a reality. In his studio in Beijing, a nine-meter tall Optimus Prime stands side by side with a seven-meter tall Bumblebee. Made to promote Transformers: Age of Extinction in 2014, these two have traveled around the nation from Beijing to other cities like Shanghai, Guangzhou and Chengdu. Having gained fame as the go-to guy for making Transformers in China, Sun has shifted his focus to creating robots rooted in Chinese culture. "What I had been doing was merely copying other people's work, now I want to create my own," Sun told the Global Times."When we think of US robots, the first thing we think of is Transformers; and when we talk about Japanese robots, the first thing that comes to us is Gundam. But nothing comes to mind when we think of robots that belong to China." The 12 animals of the Chinese zodiac were the first thing that came to Sun's mind since every person is born under a particular sign each year. His first Chinese robot, a dragon based on his daughter's zodiac sign, was completed in 2015. So far Sun has also finished robot versions of the horse, tiger, ox and monkey signs. The last, of course, is called the Monkey King and is the work Sun is most proud of as the robot can actually be piloted by a human being as it moves around on four legs. "The US MegaBots have challenged us to a duel," Sun said, noting that MegaBots had previously dueled Japan's KURATAS team in 2017.  The path aheadSun is very proud that when it comes to the art of robotics, China can stand shoulder to shoulder with the rest of the world. Yet finding investment to keep his studio alive is still a big headache for him as a team leader. "The studio has survived yet another year without capital injection," Sun posted on his WeChat Moments on January 1.He told the Global Times that making a single ordinary robot can cost around 1 million yuan ($148,500), but a mech that can be piloted costs more than five million yuan. "Our budget for the Monkey King and its future upgrades is 5 to 10 million yuan," Sun said. Currently a lecturer at the Central Academy of Fine Arts as he continues to work on a few commercial projects with his team, Sun said that a few investment companies have reached out to him, but he later decided to not rush into the commercial arena because he was unsure if he could meet their requirements. For instance, one company wanted him to finish all 12 zodiac robots within two years.  "Cai Hegao, who is known as the Father of Chinese robots, once asked me what purpose do my robots serve since they just stand there for people to look at," Sun said, noting that most robots made today tend to have specific functions in the industrial or medical industries.  "I told him that they can be carriers of our culture and show off traditional Chinese culture such as our architecture, language, written characters, symbols, color and the zodiac."Newspaper headline: Culture transformed Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass Resignation reveals political interference5G competition a new arms race?Canadian reporter complicates Meng case irresponsibly Chinese runner to finish pole-to-pole trekLA teachers strike shows failure of America's public school system2019 Rose Parade held in Pasadena How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐