Lianyungang port, East China's Jiangsu Province, on Monday Photo: ICHow serious would US inflation be with a full-blown trade war? The record US trade deficit with China may offer some clues. Although the US imposed protectionist tariffs on Chinese products starting in July 2018, China announced on Monday that its trade surplus with the US still grew 17 percent year-on-year to $323.32 billion last year, the highest since 2006. Exports from China to the US rose 11.3 percent in 2018, exceeding China's overall export growth of 9.9, Chinese customs figures show. Some US importers temporarily increased purchases of certain products to build up their inventories before US tariffs kicked in, so as to minimize losses amid the trade war. This is one reason behind the growth in the US deficit.Why did the US importers do this? Products manufactured in China offer relatively high quality but the prices are cheap. In the short run, US importers cannot find alternative sources for those products, so they have to continue to import from China despite the tariffs. A build-up of inventories is the best they can do to minimize losses.But this is only a temporary solution, and both economies are set to feel delayed trade war pain in the coming months. If the two countries cannot make a deal to end their ongoing dispute, China's exports to the US will probably slow down this year. As their inventories fall, US importers may have to shoulder a considerable part of US tariffs and pass on the cost burden to US consumers.What the trade war can bring to the US may not be benefits like manufacturing jobs, but inflation. The Washington Post reported in September 2018 that the price of a popular Chinese made utility vehicle had risen $1,700 to $12,999 since March. There are many more examples. Some observers suggested that US tariffs could cost the average American household $850 a year.Inexpensive Chinese products have made a great contribution to helping the US maintain moderate inflation in the past decade. Trade between China and the US is basically market-oriented, and if the US government wants to intervene in the market with tariffs, the distorted market will hand out punishment. For the US, a trade war will probably cause an inflationary calamity. The record US trade deficit is a reflection of distorted markets and an omen of inflation, not good news for either side.The author is a reporter with the Global Times. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass Poland becoming a US accomplice China's 'Underground Steel Great Wall' capable of defeating hypersonic weapon attacks: academicianIs Uncle Sam going to be the catalyst to another multifaceted global crisis? 2019 Rose Parade held in PasadenaThe tide is turning: racists, bigots and sexists finally being held accountableNo country can dominate Africa How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐