○ A Xinjiang primary school teaching in standard Chinese language has offered more education opportunities to students from ethnic and poor families○ Kurban Niyaz, the founder, did not stray from his road despite the many barriers and difficulties○ In December 2018, Kurban was awarded the title of reform pioneer in the 40th anniversary of reform and opening-up and received by China's top leaders

Kurban Niyaz, headmaster of the school, plays the waist drum in the classroom. Photo: courtesy of Niu Haiyan "To be honest, my dream is to go to Tsinghua University," Gulzeba Kurban, 11 years old, declares confidently in front of a dozen visitors.The small girl with short hair and wearing glasses was in a navy blue Chinese style cotton uniform, looking smart, calm and confident. She is a sixth grade student at the Standard Spoken and Written Chinese Language Primary School in Qianjin township, Wushi county, Aksu prefecture of Northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region."Even though I'm good at literature, I will choose to learn chemistry or physics in university," Gulzeba said in fluent and clear Putonghua in one of the school's activity rooms. The room featured a small wooden desk in the ancient Chinese style and posters with information about the country's history and customs.Looking outside the window brings views of boundless barley fields. It is winter, so there were just a few goats wandering around the bare field.Gulzeba went to Beijing last summer for a school summer camp. Now she has a clear path for her future in mind - first, get admission to a junior high school in a big city in Xinjiang, then attend high school in an eastern city. After graduating from Tsinghua University, she wants to go for further education abroad.Gulzeba says she wants to come back to her hometown after study to work in the field of education, just like her headmaster, whom she respects greatly.In August 2003, Kurban Niyaz, the headmaster, founded the school with his own savings after seeing the development gap between his hometown and some eastern provinces.Despite doubts, criticisms and difficulties, he has never stopped running and leading the school over the past 16 years. Many of his students have had their lives changed through education. The first students entered universities in Shanghai and Tianjin in 2016. One of them was admitted by Tsinghua University with the highest score in Aksu. On December 18, at the conference marking the 40th anniversary of China's reform and opening-up, Kurban was awarded a reform pioneer medal together with Alibaba co-founder Jack Ma Yun, Baidu co-founder Li Yanhong and former basketball star Yao Ming. In Beijing, he was received twice by China's top leaders."I will not forget my original goal and task to allow more children to enjoy high-quality and fair education," Kurban said.

Students read a text in Putonghua at the Standard Spoken and Written Chinese Language Primary School in Qianjin township, Wushi county, Aksu prefecture of Northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region. Photo: Fan Lingzhi/GT Quick learnersQianjin town is one and a half hour's drive from Aksu city. The Standard Spoken and Written Chinese Language Primary School of Qianjin township is located next to a road in a quiet village.In the center of the campus stands a three-meter-high sculpture of Confucius. The school features courses in Putonghua. Even though many children could only speak Uyghur before entering first grade, they were able to use Putonghua to express their basic needs in as little as two weeks thanks to the methods Kurban used. "Children can learn 50 new words a day," he said.After six years of studying here, Gulzeba's Putonghua has become as good as that of any student in Beijing. She and her schoolmates often serve as interpreters for local residents who cannot speak Putonghua.Apart from studying language, Gulzeba also learned to play the erhu, a traditional instrument, sing Peking Opera and recite a number of Chinese classics.Six years ago, Gulzeba's parents, both police officers in Xinjiang, decided to send her to boarding school, as they were very busy at work.This summer, Gulzeba will take her first major step on her plan for the future - the entrance exam for junior high school. If students get a certain score, they are able to study in schools in one of Xinjiang's major cities under a policy launched in 2004 to support outstanding students from ethnic or poverty-stricken regions. Afterwards, they will have the chance to study in qualified high schools around China, which means more opportunities to enter one of the country's top universities.As a top five student in class, she is confident about the exam.The school now has 639 students, and more than 90 percent were ethnic minority students from poverty-stricken families.The fee for one semester is 1,000 yuan ($148.5), a cost that some families still cannot afford. "I secretly remit the tuition fees of many poor students," Kurban said. "But I won't tell you how many."Wushi is a national-level poverty-stricken county. Rural children here lack family education, not to mention personal manners and good habits. In the past decade, local people have lived under a heavy religious environment."I have been to university, so I want to provide a good educational environment for local children," Kurban said. "I really hope that through education, our children can walk out of their restricted space into the wider world, changing their lives through knowledge."He noted that the "language barrier used to hinder Uyghurs from leaving the region." "Should Uyghurs only do Uyghur dance and play Uyghur instruments in Xinjiang? Ethnic groups need to be tolerant… If you don't know the standard Chinese language or the beauty of Chinese culture, you can never step out and show your own talent on a bigger stage," he continued.  

Gulzba Ahmet, 11, shows off her Erhu, a two-stringed traditional Chinese instrument. Photo: Fan Lingzhi/GTFinding the keyIn Qianjin, 99.5 percent of residents are Uyghurs. Kurban was born here, a remote township in a national-level poverty-stricken county in the west end of China bordering Kyrgyzstan.He grew up in Yingawati village by Taushgan Darya, opposite the Fourth Regiment of the First Division under Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps."My dream used to be becoming a carpenter. But then I saw the different food, costumes and vehicles in the Fourth Regiment, and understood that there was a world outside," Kurban told the Global Times.He then decided to become the first university student from Qianjin.In 1982, Kurban entered Xinjiang University, majoring in standard Chinese language and became a teacher at Aksu Vocational and Technical College in 1986. In 1999, he entered the world of business just as reform and opening-up  was in full swing in China and soon earned a fortune. "I could have earned more, but I wanted to do something meaningful for my hometown." He decided to found a school in the township, teaching standard spoken and written Chinese. "Language is the key to the wider world and further roads," he believes.
'The Passion'In 2003, Kurban invested 600,000 yuan in building the school, using a piece of land provided by the township government. He also recruited several Han teachers, including Li Yonghong, a teacher from the Fourth Regiment, who later became Kurban's most trusted working partner.Most of the residents in the township cannot speak Putonghua, nor could they understand Kurban's intentions. Some even suspected that Kurban was trying to deceive the government in order to get land. To recruit students, Kurban and the teachers went to villagers' homes to promote the school, and used small toys and picture books to attract children, something the residents of less-developed villages had never seen before.Finally, more than 80 children registered at Kurban's school and became the first students there.But it was extremely difficult over the years, Li, now the vice headmaster of the school, told the Global Times. Many of the children often cried as they could not speak any Putonghua initially. There were lice and fleas in the bedding, which also infected the teachers. Many teachers could not stand the environment and left.Moreover, some extremists tried to deter Kurban from running the school and damaged the property from time to time. For instance, they took away the school's plaque or set fire to the kitchen.But Kurban never faltered and believes he is on the right road. "In the hardest times, I like watching The Passion of the Christ. It helps me."In 2010, the first graduates of Kurban's school took the admission exams for junior high school. "I didn't know if my method worked or not. I had planned to escape," he said. However, to Kurban's surprise, 32 students out of 38 passed the exam, a result that had never been achieved in Aksu before.After that, some parents were prepared to camp for a whole month outside the school to secure a place for their children. In June 2016, the school moved into a new campus with the support of 16.5 million yuan of funds from Xinjiang's education department. The Aksu government also gave 760,000 yuan to the school in financial support annually.National pioneerOn December 12, 2018, Kurban answered an official invitation asking him to attend the grand conference on reform and opening-up. He and his wife were then received by China's top leaders in Beijing twice. "It was like a dream," he said."The pupils at Qianjin school all have ideals and are also well-mannered and polite. They are grateful as well," Amina Yakexi at Aksu's education bureau told the Global Times. The school's focus is on practicing multi-cultural education and joining mainstream culture, and teaches students about national unity.Now the region is promoting Kurban's methods, and he has been delivering speeches around Xinjiang."I have been on the right road by founding the standard Chinese language school and practicing ethnic unity," he said.This winter holiday, he told his students to watch a Chinese movie every day. He also encouraged them to learn about Chinese celebrities.He always tells the students, just like a drop of water can exist forever by running into the ocean, an ethnic group needs to blend into the big family of the country for continuous development. "One of the Uyghur people's greatest achievements in history is to become a member of the Chinese family." 
 Newspaper headline: Speaking the Same Language Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass J-16 fighter jet stealth-capable, able to carry all types of Chinese air-to-surface weaponsXi extends Spring Festival greetings to non-Communist parties, personagesForcing allies to pick sides, US destabilizes world order Chinese runner to finish pole-to-pole trekLA teachers strike shows failure of America's public school system2019 Rose Parade held in Pasadena How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐