Illustration: Liu Rui/GTAt a kindergarten in Beijing, three guards who looked clumsy despite carrying professional equipment stood still watching around the gate, and one of them, a paunchy man, wore a protective vest that barely covered his belly. This scene was shown by a viral photo that has been removed after a hammer attack on primary schoolchildren in the capital last week. It's hard to tell from the picture if the guards were qualified to do their job, but such sights do little to make people feel safe under the eyes of those who have been entrusted with their security. Though they were clad in body armor, they looked ill prepared for any attack or other exigency. Various types of security workers can be found in public places like shopping malls, banks and housing estates, and they have one thing in common: people cannot help but doubt if these workers are really capable of protecting them. Some guards always look droopy, some are too skinny to even fit their uniforms and some too old to make people believe they can act fast enough during emergencies. Why is that?The reason could lie in lack of proper management despite Chinese authorities enacting a regulation on security services on January 1, 2010. The document listed the conditions for a person to be a security guard. People must pass an exam and come out clean after an investigation by public security bureaus (PSB) before they get a certificate.Security service companies should guarantee workers' rights such as proper remuneration, welfare and training.However, the regulations are not strictly followed.It is relatively easy for people neither certified by PSB nor experienced in the industry to find a guard's job because employers usually don't expect much from them. And due to low income and status, people are unwilling to stay with the industry for long, especially those who are skilled and educated such as retired soldiers. In Beijing, the disposable income of a majority of security workers, who mostly come from rural areas, was less than 300 yuan ($44.4) per month in 2015, and it was normal for five or six of them to share a room, Workers' Daily reported. Besides, proper training is rare to keep security workers primed. The problem is especially serious in malls and companies that hire people indiscriminately.Guards are sometimes hired to check the must-do list rather than to plan for emergencies. Hence, security workers at these places are often misfits. The quality of security staff is important because it is closely linked to people's safety in public places. Mismanagement could be a factor that increases the chances of a tragedy. Last February, a viral knife attack at Xidan Joy City in Beijing left one dead and 12 injured. The attacker was unstoppable until an unarmed guard held him back with a stool and fire extinguisher.Beijing authorities tightened security at public places after the attack by deploying more guards and arming them with shields, helmets and anti-riot forks - a long pole with a crescent-shaped part to hold back the attacker. Nonetheless, the key to strengthening security is not only increasing the number of guards but also making sure they are capable of reacting quickly to situations needed to fight violence. Weapons that people cannot master could become a drag and even hurt the guard.  Guards must be trained to use equipment in different situations; otherwise the gears are only decoration to the place. Indeed, China is one of the safest countries in the world, but various forms of violent assault that are becoming increasingly common have rung alarm bells. By better management, improving workers' welfare and strengthening training, managers must attach more importance to fix the flaws in the industry before anyone comes out and hurts people again. The author is a reporter with the Global Times. xuhailin@globaltimes.com.cn Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass Schellenberg trial shows Canada's arbitrary view of rule of lawChina's 'Underground Steel Great Wall' capable of defeating hypersonic weapon attacks: academicianPoland becoming a US accomplice 2019 Rose Parade held in PasadenaThe tide is turning: racists, bigots and sexists finally being held accountableNo country can dominate Africa How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐