Trending on Wednesday: The Untamed enters Tumblr's list of the best TV series for 2019, Black Widow teaser trailer drops, South Korean singer/actress Im Yoon-ah wows fans with her Chinese speaking ability. #The Untamed enters Tumblr's Top Live-Action TV list#340 million views    109,000 posts 

Wang Yibo (Left) and Xiao Zhan attend a concert for The Untamed in Nanjing, East China's Jiangsu Province on November 2. Photo: VCG Tumblr published its 2019's Top Live-Action TV list of the top 50 most popular TV series around the world. Summer hit The Untamed was listed at No.36, becoming the first Chinese TV drama to ever enter the chart.Starring actors Xiao Zhan and Wang Yibo, The Untamed is based on the popular "Boy's Love" web novel about two men who support each other and overcome difficulties, even the threat of death, to finally live happily ever after together.The series has an 8.3/10 on Chinese media review site Douban and currently has the highest number of reviews on the platform. The series earned 6.6 billion views on streaming platform Tencent Video.The Untamed was praised by People's Daily for its "wonderful presentation of Chinese characteristics." #Black Widow teaser trailer#260 million views   147,000 posts 

A wax figure of Black Widow,the character played by actress Scarlett Johansson, on display at the Huanqiu Wax Figure Gallery in Chengdu, Southwest China's Sichuan Province on February 6, 2016. Photo: VCG Marvel Studio released the Chinese teaser trailer for the Black Widow film at 3:55 pm on Tuesday on Sina Weibo, earning huge cheers from Chinese fans of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The trailer earned more than 10.4 million views within its first 24 hours.   While the film is set to release in the US on May 1, 2020, the Chinese trailer only listed 2020 as the global release date. The vague window left many Chinese fans wondering if the film will be released alongside the US, similar to recent outings Avengers: Endgame and Spider-Man: Far From Home. "I wonder if I'm dreaming? The teaser trailer has been released and my heroine is coming," one Sina Weibo user commented. "I have been waiting for such a long time and now the coolest and cutest heroine has finally arrived! Welcome back, Natasha," wrote another. # Im Yoon-ah speaks Chinese#  110 million views    34,000 posts

South Korean singer and actress Im Yoon-ah attends the 2019 Cosmo Glam Night in Shanghai on Tuesday. Photo: VCG South Korean singer and actress Im Yoon-ah, better known by her stage name Yoona, amazed her Chinese fans after she spoke in Chinese during an interview at the 2019 Cosmo Glam Night held on Tuesday in Shanghai.Speaking in Chinese, Yoona said she was happy to meet her Chinese fans. Her choice to respond in Chinese was praised by Chinese netizens as showing her respect for fans in China.Yoona belongs to the girl group Girls' Generation, one of the most popular K-pop groups worldwide. Newspaper headline: What's hot on Weibo 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  What's hot on Weibo What’s hot on Weibo What’s hot on Weibo Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Futuristic cars on displayModern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigil