Trending on Thursday:The 2019 Mnet Asian Music Awards (MAMA) held in Japan on Wednesday night has become one of the hottest topics on Sina Weibo, with the hashtag getting more than 1.3 billion views.#The Miracle Workers BTS# 760 million views    267,000 posts

BTS Photo: VCGSouth Korean boy band BTS took home nine trophies at this year's MAMA, including Artist of the Year, Worldwide Icon of the Year and Best Male Group, becoming the first group of artists in MAMA's history to win nine Daesang (grand prize) award in eight categories.Chinese fans of the band went wild on social media after the news of BTS' achievements broke. Netizens called them "miracle workers" and record breakers on Sina Weibo, reflecting their pride in their idols. "Teamwork makes dreams work! They made it," commented one happy netizen on Sina Weibo. "BTS will create one miracle after another. 2020 will be also BTS's year!" another confident Sina Weibo user wrote.BTS won five awards at 2018's MAMA in China's Hong Kong.#UNINE MAMA#260 million views  124,000 posts

UNINE Photo: VCGTwo Chinese boy bands UNINE and WayV performed at MAMA that night. Their performances at the musical celebration were praised by Chinese netizens, especially that of UNINE, a nine-member Chinese boy band formed on April 6 during the second season of streaming platform iQIYI's idol survival show Idol Producer. UNINE team leader Li Wenhan has had more than 10 million followers on Sina Weibo.Chinese netizens complimented the new boy band for their stunning performance, makeup and style at the MAMA. "Li Wenhan's makeup was so amazing and gorgeous. Next time they can perform on an even larger stage," posted one netizen.# Jackson's reaction to JYP boss' transparent raincoat#230 million views    58,000 posts

Jackson Wang Photo: VCGJackson Wang and his group Got7 also attended the 2019 MAMA. The singer sent Chinese netizens into peals of laughter after they saw his reaction to his boss Park Jin-young showing up in transparent raincoat on stage.A viral video of Park's performance shows the founder of South Korea's JYP Entertainment dressed in a transparent raincoat for his hot dance performance on stage, followed by Wang's puzzled look as he sat in the audience. "Hehe, Jackson might be thinking: What am I seeing? Why is my boss doing this?" one netizen guessed."Tonight my happiness is all from Jackson," another wrote.Members of JYP Entertainment girl band Twice were also spotted turning red during the performance. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Internet database to revive depleting China’s traditional music Music executive reports ‘death threats’ amid feud with pop singer Taylor Swift US musician will.i.am accuses Qantas flight attendant of racism Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Futuristic cars on displayModern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigil