Photo taken on Dec. 3, 2019 shows flowers laid before the memorial hall wall where the victims' names are engraved during a commemoration activity in Nanjing, capital of east China's Jiangsu Province. (Xinhua/Li Bo)Starting Tuesday, family members of the victims of the Nanjing massacre began a series of commemoration activities such as laying flowers and burning incense before the memorial wall where the victims' names are engraved, in Nanjing, capital of east China's Jiangsu Province.The Nanjing Massacre took place when Japanese troops captured the city, then China's capital, on Dec. 13, 1937. Over six weeks, they killed 300,000 Chinese civilians and unarmed soldiers.In February 2014, China's top legislature designated December 13 as the national memorial day for victims of the Nanjing Massacre. Family members of the victims also started to hold commemoration activities at the memorial hall in December of the same year.

People attend commemoration activities for the victims in Nanjing Massacre by Japanese invaders in Nanjing, capital of east China's Jiangsu Province, Dec. 3, 2019. (Xinhua/Li Bo) 

Survivors of the Nanjing Massacre Ge Daorong(1st L, front), Xia Shuqin(2nd L, front), Ai Yiying(1st R, front), and Tao Xiuhua(2nd R, front), the daughter of the newly confirmed victim Zhou Wanrong attend commemoration activities for the victims in Nanjing Massacre by Japanese invaders in Nanjing, capital of east China's Jiangsu Province, Dec. 3, 2019. (Xinhua/Li Bo) 

Survivors of the Nanjing Massacre Ge Daorong(1st L, front), Xia Shuqin(2nd L, front), Ai Yiying(2nd R, front), Ma Tingbao(1st R), and Tao Xiuhua(3rd, L, front), the daughter of the newly confirmed victim Zhou Wanrong attend commemoration activities for the victims in Nanjing Massacre by Japanese invaders in Nanjing, capital of east China's Jiangsu Province, Dec. 3, 2019. (Xinhua/Li Bo) 

People attend commemoration activities for the victims in Nanjing Massacre by Japanese invaders in Nanjing, capital of east China's Jiangsu Province, Dec. 3, 2019. (Xinhua/Li Bo)   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Number of Nanjing Massacre survivors decreases to 85 Basketball fan detained for abusing rival team in words related to Nanjing Massacre  China holds national memorial ceremony for Nanjing Massacre victims Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims