A protester burns tyres to block the road in the city of Tripoli, Lebanon, on Nov. 13, 2019. (Xinhua/Khalid)A number of young Lebanese protesters broke into the Beirut Justice Palace on Monday voicing demands on the 47th day of nationwide demonstrations, Al Jadeed local TV channel reported.Protesters demanded that the judicial system in Lebanon be free of any political interferences, in addition to investigations into corruption cases related to fuel and electricity, tax evasion and other issues.

People take part in a protest in Beirut, Lebanon, on Oct. 21, 2019. (Xinhua/Bilal Jawich)Protesters also demanded the release of their friends who were arrested during nationwide demonstrations in the past days.

People take part in a protest at Al-Nour Square in Tripoli, Lebanon, on Dec. 1, 2019. (Xinhua/Khalid)Demonstrators who entered the Beirut Justice Palace for the first time since the beginning of protests in Lebanon shouted slogans against the corrupted political system in Lebanon.One citizen told Al Jadeed that lawyers and judges at the Beirut Justice Palace showed great support for protesters' demands.   

Protesters burn tyres to block the road in Khaldeh, south of Lebanon, on Nov. 13, 2019. (Xinhua/Bilal Jawich)Lebanon has been witnessing protests against the ruling political class and their corrupt practices for the past 30 years.Protests have so far succeeded in toppling the government while protesters vowed not to leave the streets until they see a formation of a new cabinet capable of dealing with their demands including the trial of corrupted politicians.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Lebanon's president urges protesters to leave streets to allow implementation of reforms Lebanon PM Hariri announces resignation amid anti-gov't protests With Lebanon in deadlock, protesters form human chain Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims