Huawei Chief Financial Officer Meng Wanzhou.Photo:VCGHuawei Chief Financial Officer Meng Wanzhou published a letter she had written on the one-year anniversary of her arrest in Canada, in which she said she was "no longer afraid of the unknown" despite moments of fear and torment. In the letter, she also thanked people ranging from Huawei colleagues and customers to Canadian officers for giving her "warmth" and "support." "My dear friends, your warmth is a beacon that lights my way forward, and I appreciate it more than words can say," she wrote. The letter was published on Huawei's official website. Meng was arrested in a Vancouver airport at the request of the US on December 1, 2018. The case has evolved to be what many Chinese observers call a stalemate between China and Canada. In the letter, Meng said it was never her intention to be stuck in Canada but that she had found a whole year had "snuck by" since her arrest. "The past year has witnessed moments of fear, pain, disappointment, helplessness, torment, and struggle… I have also learned to face up to and accept my situation. I'm no longer afraid of the unknown," she wrote. Meng also listed many examples of the support she had received, such as the choice made by Huawei customers and suppliers to trust the tech giant, the waiting crowds every time she appeared in court, and the encouraging comments like "Go Huawei" left by take-out delivery workers on orders delivered to their campuses."Hold on and you will become a hero. Chinese people will back you up," one netizen wrote on Weibo, commenting on Meng's public letter.Meng also said she was "deeply moved" by the kindness of people in Canada, saying that she had burst into tears after hearing applause in the public gallery when she was granted bail by the judge. "I no longer feel so far from home. I'm no longer afraid of the rough road ahead. While my personal freedoms have been limited, my soul still seeks to be free. Amid these setbacks, I've found light in the life around me," she wrote. The newly appointed Chinese Ambassador to Canada, Cong Peiwu, paid a visit to Meng on Thursday. He said the Chinese government will continue to urge Canada to correct its mistake and take measures to solve the issue as soon as possible. Global Times  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Calls endure to free Meng Huawei eyes building world’s largest AI computing platform  Reelected Trudeau should send Meng Wanzhou back to China Big baby makes debutAntique cars highlighted in US auto showsRose queens Global Times and Pakistan Observer signs MoUThe 3rd Sino-Nordic Cup Football Tournament draws crowdsGlobal Times begins cooperation with Sputnik