Senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram holds a placard which reads "Inflation rising, onion prices rising, why is the Modi Government silent?" during a protest against the rising onion prices in New Delhi, India on Dec. 5, 2019. The onion prices across Indian states continue to soar as government promised to import the edible bulbs from foreign countries. India's main opposition Congress party lawmakers Thursday protested inside the parliament premises against rising onion prices. The members were holding placards and shouted slogans against the government's apathy toward the price hike. Photo:Xinhua  

A labor carries a sack of onions at a wholesale market in New Delhi, India, on Dec. 5, 2019. The onion prices across Indian states continue to soar as government promised to import the edible bulbs from foreign countries. Photo:Xinhua  

An onion vendor waits for customers at a wholesale market in New Delhi, India, on Dec. 5, 2019. The onion prices across Indian states continue to soar as government promised to import the edible bulbs from foreign countries. Photo:Xinhua  

A vendor sells onions at a vegetable market in New Delhi, India, on Dec. 5, 2019. The onion prices across Indian states continue to soar as government promised to import the edible bulbs from foreign countries. Photo:Xinhua  

Vendors sell onions at a vegetable market in New Delhi, India, on Dec. 5, 2019. The onion prices across Indian states continue to soar as government promised to import the edible bulbs from foreign countries. Photo:Xinhua  

Laborers transport onion sacks with a cycle rickshaw at a wholesale market in New Delhi, India, on Dec. 5, 2019. The onion prices across Indian states continue to soar as government promised to import the edible bulbs from foreign countries. Photo:Xinhua  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  RCEP members move to resolve India's concerns Wildlife park in Jammu, Indian-controlled Kashmir School children feed seagulls in Mumbai, India Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Futuristic cars on displayModern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigil