A machine "gatekeeper" stands at Alibaba's data center in Zhangbei county, North China's Hebei Province on Wednesday. The data center is known as the "technological heart" of the Alibaba Group where the trading information during the upcoming Double 11 shopping festival is stored. The "gatekeeper" generally investigates different machines every day to ensure they can run well for the shopping festival. Photo: IC A company led by former Honeywell International Inc chief executive David Cote and backed by Goldman Sachs Group Inc is in talks to acquire US backup power equipment firm Vertiv for more than $5 billion, including debt, according to people familiar with the matter.Cote's firm, GS Acquisition Holdings Corp, is a so-called special purpose acquisition company, that raised $690 million in an IPO last year to buy a company without telling investors in advance what that would be.GS Acquisition could use the money it raised in the IPO, in addition to debt financing, to acquire Vertiv from private equity firm Platinum Equity. The negotiations are ongoing, and there is no certainty a deal will be reached, the sources said, asking not to be identified because the matter is confidential. Vertiv has also drawn interest from other potential bidders, one of the sources added.Vertiv declined to comment. Representatives for Platinum Equity and Goldman Sachs did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Cote could not be immediately reached for comment.Based in Columbus, Ohio, Vertiv manufactures systems provide maintenance for backup power and other safety systems to data centers, communication networks, and commercial and industrial environments.Vertiv is the former network power business of Emerson Electric, which Platinum Equity acquired three years ago for about $4 billion, in one of the largest deals the Los Angeles-based buyout firm had ever completed. Emerson kept a minority interest in the company, according to a statement at the time.In 2017, Platinum agreed to sell Vertiv's automatic transfer switch business to Schneider Electric  for $1.25 billion.Cote served as Honeywell's CEO between 2002 and 2017. He is now leading Goldman's first SPAC, as the investment bank seeks to expand its asset management division. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Honeywell studies CPC report to discover business opportunities  Honeywell to spin off businesses Honeywell introduces Mandarin language in helicopter cockpit warning system Futuristic cars on displayBig baby makes debutAntique cars highlighted in US auto shows Global Times and Pakistan Observer signs MoUThe 3rd Sino-Nordic Cup Football Tournament draws crowdsGlobal Times begins cooperation with Sputnik