Editor's Note:"The trustees of the British Museum have become the world's largest receivers of stolen property, and the great majority of their loot is not even on public display," Geoffrey Robertson QC (Robertson), a high-profile human rights barrister, academic, author and broadcaster, says in his new book Who Owns History? Elgin's Loot and the Case for Returning Plundered Treasure. In his view, Western countries may not be able to correct historical wrongs, "but we can no longer, without shame, profit from them."The recourse for national treasures and cultural relics that have been looted during special historical periods poses a big challenge for many countries. Global Times London correspon¬dent Sun Wei (GT) recently interviewed Robertson on this topic.GT: What drove you to write the book Who Owns History? Elgin's Loot and the Case for Returning Plundered Treasure. Is it related to your experience? Robertson: I was inspired to write this book by a case I did to stop the Natural History Museum in London from experimenting on the human remains of Tasmanian aborigines who were massacred in the early 19th century. 

The Parthenon Marbles are displayed at the British Museum. Also known as the Elgin Marbles, the prized artifacts are a collection of classical Greek marble sculptures from the fifth century. Photo: Sun Wei/GTTheir skulls were robbed from graves and sent off to England to decorate Victorian mantelpieces. In 2010, the National History Museum decided without consulting their descendants to experiment with DNA tests which is contrary to the spiritual beliefs of Tasmanian aboriginals. In the end, the museum had to agree to send back for proper burial these human remains without subjecting them to tests. The case raised the issue of how museums should respect the property they possess, often as a result of war crimes or other illegal actions. Then I was asked by the Greek government to investigate the circumstances in which Lord Elgin obtained the Parthenon Marbles and I concluded that they were stolen from Greece. GT: Could you describe the most impressive case of restitution of looted treasure?Robertson: The best known case is the Parthenon marbles. The Parthenon Frieze is an over 180 meters recreation of what a procession celebrating peace in 440BC looked like. It is the most important case because the British Museum refuses to allow the modern world to see the greatest wonder of the ancient world at its most appropriate location - in the New Acropolis Museum beneath the Parthenon and under a blue Athens sky.GT: To celebrate its bicentennial independence in 2021, Greece has prepared a formal request to borrow the British Museum's sculptures removed more than 200 years ago from the Parthenon temple on Athens' Acropolis. However, the British Museum has announced this would only be considered if Greece acknowledges British ownership of the sculptures. Some people call this the "Greek tragedy." What do you think is the root cause of such a "tragedy?"Robertson: Yes, this is a disgraceful behavior by the trustees of the British Museum. They insist that they possess the marbles but Elgin took them away as a thief. There are in truth receivers of stolen property.GT: Cultural internationalism considers cultural heritage as belonging to all people, but "owned" by nobody in particular. How do you evaluate Western museums' "universal" positions? Robertson: I don't think that this is a sensible position. All cultural heritage is created at a particular time, in a particular place, and by particular people. Their nation states and their descendants may be rightfully proud of that culture and wish to enjoy it. That doesn't prevent appreciation by others but the appreciation should be in a place where the cultural property can be best appreciated! Ninety percent of African cultural heritage is in European museums. GT: French President Emmanuel Macron said two years ago during his trip to Africa that "the return of African artifacts would become 'a top priority' for France in the next five years." Do you think it rare for a Western politician to make such a remark? Robertson: Macron is a relatively young man, part of a generation that has little connection with colonialism of the past. He is morally unencumbered by the history and the institutions of colonialism. I think his intentions are genuine but he will face a lot of opposition from French museums and French historians who still see France's colonial history in triumphant or nationalistic terms. GT: Apart from France, cultural ministers of Germany's 16 states have announced that they would collaborate with museums on researching and repatriating artifacts that were looted during the colonial era. The Netherlands' National Museum of World Cultures (NMWC) has pledged to proactively return all artifacts in its collection identified as stolen during the colonial era. Are these positive signs? Is UK lagging in efforts compared to France, Germany, and the Netherlands?Robertson: Yes, the UK is much less morally affected by colonialism: it likes to think that it was chiefly responsible for spreading Christianity and civilisation in the 19th century military operations. It still clings to colonial ideas and attitudes, exemplified by the refusal of its institutions to collaborate on identifying and returning looted objects. These attitudes are pathetic, really: British institutions have come to recognise slavery as a crime against humanity, but not the barbaric looting and plundering practices of the British army. Politicians sometimes apologise for them but the only way to show sincerity is to send the items back and stop making a profit out of them.GT: A red bronze horse head was donated back by Macao-based tycoon and collector Stanley Ho Hung-sun and handed over to the National Cultural Heritage Administration in Beijing on November 13. Do you have any information about Chinese cultural relics that have been lost overseas? What do you think of China's efforts to reclaim its looted art and antiquities overseas?Robertson: I think China has suffered more than any African nation from looting by the West. In 1867, the British and French armies took a million cultural items from the Old Summer Palace. Moreover, the British army burnt down the Old Summer Palace, murdering 150 servants and eunuchs hiding there. At the time of the Boxer Rebellion, all the major countries that had spheres of influence used the power to loot, and again during the war the Japanese took away many cultural treasures. So I applaud China's efforts to get back its looted art - even, allegedly, by stealing it back from Fontainebleau! It perhaps shows ignorance that Macron should only talk about returning the stolen relics of Africa: Some of the worst examples of cultural vandalism may be found in the theft of Chinese art. GT: International conventions, high-priced bidding, bilateral negotiations. For countries where cultural relics have been plundered, the means they can rely on are very limited, and the items have complex ownership and are controversial. This dilemma seems to be unsolvable. What's your advice for these countries?Robertson: I think they need to put a strategy in place. First, we need the international court of justice - the world court - to rule that it is now a contravention of international law to wrongfully take cultural property belonging to other people and it is necessary for the countries who committed the plunder to return the loot. Then we should follow it up with a convention in order to stop trafficking in cultural property which originated many years - even centuries - ago. Newspaper headline: Cultural burglary 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Pic story of horse head fiddle maker in northeast China's Jilin Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Futuristic cars on displayModern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigil