Nanshan Ski Village Photo: Courtesy of He YangIn December of 2017, Beijing extended its visa-free transit policy from 72 hours to 144 hours. Many travelers may wonder just what are the most efficient ways to see the best of what the capital and its surrounding areas have to offer during the winter months in just six days. Fortunately, the Bureau of Culture and Tourism of Miyun district of Beijing Municipality has launched two three-day routes that offer the opportunity to visit beautiful natural scenic spots and historical sites, get a taste of the best local cuisine and, best of all, go skiing.The two high-quality tour routes were launched as part of efforts to promote and integrate the winter tour resources in the northeastern Beijing district and the nearby Luanping county in North China's Heibei Province. Skiing is increasingly popular in China, especially ahead of the XXIV Olympic Winter Games. The Miyun district has two ski resorts, the Nanshan Ski Village and Yunfo Mountain Ski Resort. Each of these resorts marks the beginning of the two routes. Route OneDay One: Kick off your trip in the morning at Nanshan Ski Village, which has 26 different ski trails for various levels of skiers and excellent equipment and facilities. For lunch, you can find steak, salad or spaghetti at the Terrace Restaurant and Pub or try out some authentic Northeast China dishes such as stewed fresh fish.Eleven kilometers north of Nanshan Ski Village lies one of the most famous historical sites in the Miyun district - Yexianta Park. It boasts a pagoda built during the Liao Dynasty (916-1125), some Buddhist temples and statues, as well as the world's largest inkstone according to the Guinness World Records.  After a day of skiing and touring, you can get some rest at the scenic Yunhu Recreational Resort, a hotel lying in the mountains with one side facing a water reservoir.Day Two: Kick off your second day with a trip to Qingliang Valley, where you can find mountains, houses and plants covered in ice. There are also plenty of restaurants to try out. An hour drive away, you can reach Beijing Wtown, a comprehensive tourist spot integrating the heritage sites of the Simatai section of the Great Wall and three ancient villages boasting activities such as boating, hot springs and traditional performances. To appreciate the night view, you could try finding a homestay on Airbnb.Day Three: To finish off this section of your trip and get the most out of your visa-free stay in the capital, you should climb the Jinshanling section of the Great Wall, a world heritage site located in Luanping county. From the top, you can glimpse the nearby mountains and lakes.Route TwoDay One: The winter journey starts at the Yunfo Mountain Ski Resort, a smaller resort with seven ski trails of various difficulty for skiers. There are also traditional winter recreational activities for children, such as ice skating or sledding. Feel free to fuel up and warm up your body as the Chinese restaurants and cafes at the resort. Their wooden frames highlights the recreational and cosy atmosphere. You can find a couple of Chinese restaurants outside the ski park, which give tourists the opportunity to taste delicious local food.If you are a fan of hot springs, the Beijing Grand Bay Hotel is the place to go on a cold winter day as it has 13 outdoor hot springs as well as 12 semi-closed private hot springs. Day Two: After a night of heating yourself up at a hot spring, it's time to head to enjoy some thrilling winter scenery. Your first destination is Heilongtan, which sits in a valley and has streams, lakes and waterfalls. The frozen water area is a big treat for visitors.You can then go to Sunshine Valley, a recreational resort with six different types of new designed accommodations for families, like wooden houses and motor homes. Day Three: Located in Luanping county, the Shanrong Culture Forest Park and Shanrong Museum are places where you can learn about the hunting and herding life of the Shanrong, an ancient tribe.If you want to have more fun and rest in Hebei, Kangsai Manor is a great place where you can go vegetable and fruit picking and taste local rural dishes.Newspaper headline: Six Days in Beijing 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Grassroots skiing competition to start new season Thousands of Americans to celebrate Independence Day by skiing Women's giant slalom of Alpine Skiing in Krasnoyarsk, Russia Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Futuristic cars on displayModern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigil