People attend a culture and tourism festival themed on Dolan and Qiuci culture in Awat County of Aksu Prefecture, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous region, Oct. 25, 2019. The festival kicked off recently in Aksu Prefecture. (Xinhua/Sadat)Some Western media and politicians turned a blind eye to the great efforts on counter-terrorism made by people in Northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region and keep maliciously hyping China's policies in the region, a senior official from the region said.Xinjiang's vocational education and training centers have attracted attention from the global community and many people have praised the region's achievements on counter-terrorism. However, some Western media and some politicians have misconstrued Xinjiang's policies, maliciously hyped Xinjiang affairs and smeared the training centers, Shohrat Zakir, deputy secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Xinjiang Committee and chairman of Xinjiang's regional government, was quoted in a release seen on ts.cn. "They neglect the fact that China's Xinjiang has made great efforts on anti-terrorism and de-radicalization and the region is trying its best to save people who have been influenced by extremism," said Shohrat.The Western media and politicians harshly attack the training centers in Xinjiang, which showed their malicious attempt to interfere with China's internal affairs, stir up separatism and make trouble to contain China, Shohrat noted. The senior regional official also said that Xinjiang launched the training centers in accordance with laws to fight against terrorism and extremism at their roots while protecting human rights. The smear campaign against Xinjiang's policies demonstrates the West's double standards on anti-terrorism and de-radicalization. They condone terrorism and extremism by hyping up the training centers in Xinjiang. The Western-based propaganda campaign against Xinjiang is despised by honest people and will not be accepted by the people in Xinjiang, according to the release. Shohrat also asked these Western media to give up their ideological bias and stop making fake news regarding the training centers. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Fixing The 'Leaks' Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims