Promotional material for Alita: Battle Angel Photo: IC

Promotional material for The Wandering Earth Photo: ICWith a 132 million yuan ($19.67 million) opening on Friday, Hollywood CGI blockbuster Alita: Battle Angel knocked Chinese sci-fi hit The Wandering Earth from the No.1 spot at the daily box-office in the Chinese mainland, where it had stayed for two weeks. With an estimated $400 million yuan, Alita will also take the weekend top spot away from The Wandering Earth, which comes in at No.2 with 248 million yuan in its third weekend. However, the Chinese-made blockbuster is not down for the count just yet as it is slowly taking screen share back from the newly released Hollywood film. While Alita and The Wandering Earth are very different films, the fact that both are big-budget sci-fi films from technologically advanced nations and have big names attached to them, James Cameron for the former and Hugo Award-winning author Liu Cixin for the latter, have caused this weekend's versus battle to fall under the media spotlight. In a report from Variety last week, the media outlet pointed out that "Hollywood movies like Alita: Battle Angel… are doing respectable business overseas," but are unable to beat out Chinese sci-fi flicks The Wandering Earth and Crazy Alien in the mainland market.There is no doubt that Alita has made a good showing during its opening weekend in the world's second-largest film market. According to Chinese ticketing platform Maoyan, its estimated $60 million weekend take in the Chinese mainland outstrips the almost $50 million it made in its home market during its first week. However, it will likely be impossible for the film to catch up to The Wandering Earth's current total of $640 million or Crazy Alien's $319 million. Additionally, while Maoyan shows that Alita still takes the lead when it comes to screen share, its percentage dropped from 39.1 percent on opening day to 38.2 percent on Sunday, while The Wandering Earth rose from 26.1 percent to 26.8 percent, indicating that the Chinese sci-fi blockbuster, currently the second-highest earning film in the mainland market, is here to stay for at least another few weekends.  While their box office results are worlds apart, audience reception toward the two films has been quite similar. On Chinese media review site Douban, The Wandering Earth's 7.9/10 rating is a little higher than Alita's 7.6/10. "Alita is a pearl on top of the film industry… it is real sci-fi, even an art film, while The Wandering Earth is limited to great special effects," Chinese netizen Lidazui Big posted on Sina Weibo."The majority of comments have emphasized Alita's special effects, which are far better than those of The Wandering Earth and should be considered the minimum standard for a movie involving film god Cameron, but what we should be talking about is what Alita does besides special effects," Nameless, another Chinese netizen, posted on Chinese question and answer site Zhihu.Following news that streaming giant Netflix purchased the streaming rights to The Wandering Earth, the film received an extension in the mainland allowing it to stay in theaters until May. This has given some industry analysts the hope that the film may end up breaking Wolf Warrior 2's box office record of 5.68 billion yuan to become the highest-earning film in the market.  However, the coming weekend will see animated film How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World and Oscar-nominated film Green Book arrive in the mainland. Following that, Marvel will bring superhero flick Captain Marvel to mainland theaters, so The Wandering Earth is set to face some fierce competition. Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass When modern fandom meets traditional folk artsModi reforms for foreign investment worth applauseZara denies denigrating Asian model in latest ad US massage industry needs regulations for developmentFirecracker RunCA to scale back $77b high-speed rail project How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐