If you are still struggling to go back to work following China's seven-day Spring Festival holiday, your overdue bills and empty wallets may give you a wake-up call.On Monday, the first working day of the Chinese lunar calendar, a topic titled "How much have you spent during Spring Festival" went viral on Sina Weibo, which sent many netizens into a panic upon the realization that they had not saved their year-end bonuses.Some Weibo users commented that the festivities surrounding Chinese Lunar New Year wore them out while others wrote that "If it were not for bills you wouldn't believe you have actually made any money."China's national commodity market maintained steady and rapid growth during this year's Spring Festival. According to statistics released from the Ministry of Commerce on February 10, from New Year's Eve to the sixth lunar day into the year (February 4 to 10), domestic retail and catering sectors posted sales of one trillion yuan ($147.63 billion), an increase of 8.5 percent from 2018.From the perspective of consumer spending, an earlier survey jointly conducted by Weidu (under Rong360.com, a Chinese provider of financing and loan services) and Tencent revealed that 37 percent of respondents expected to spend more than 10,000 yuan during Spring Festival. Over 41 percent of respondents said that consumption during Spring Festival was expected to exceed their own monthly income while just 2 percent expected to spend more than half of their annual income.How exactly is this money spent? Hongbao (red envelopes filled with cash) and other gifts for parents, relatives and friends can be a big expenditure. The survey showed that nearly 70 percent of respondents give their family elders hongbao during the occasion, with 26 percent of them saying that this has become their biggest expenditure during the Chinese New Year holiday.Love and painLiu Xiang, 27, has been working for the past three years in Shanghai since graduating from university. He describes Spring Festival as both a "love and pain" experience. "It was a rare opportunity to gather with my family at the end of the year, but I also had to give extra unnecessary money," Liu told the Global Times. "Now that I have been working for three years, it was expected that I should hand out red packets filled with cash to all my relatives and even their small kids, which is a tradition in my hometown."This year, Liu spent a total of 8,000 yuan, mostly on hongbao and the remainder on dining and entertainment with old friends. "The smallest sum of each red packet must be at least 500 yuan," he explained. "If you don't, you are regarded as the black sheep of your family."Liu was not the only young worker struggling to keep up with ancient traditions. For Xu Aili, 30 and married, handing out hongbao is a kind of art form. "A lot needs to be taken into consideration when you give people red packets. Giving too much or too little risks upsetting others. It is too complicated," said Xu.This year, Xu spent 20,000 yuan during Spring Festival. This included 14,000 yuan in hongbao for her parents and in-laws, 3,000 yuan for senior and junior relatives and 3,000 yuan on sundry gifts for other family members.A waste of money"On my husband's side, they have a tradition of giving out fat red packets to all the kids. For a little nephew, you must prepare 1,000 yuan. This doesn't include the extra cost of toys," said Xu. "It is a kind of burden. I'd rather spend this money on improving the living standards of my own parents rather than wasting money on these distant relatives," noted Xu.According to a survey from Zhaopin.com, a Chinese online recruitment services provider, the average year-end bonus for white collar workers is 7,100 yuan. However, the cost of Spring Festival customs often far exceeds that amount. But isn't that the whole point of a holiday? Shouldn't Spring Festival be more self-indulgent than the rest of the year? Almost 40 percent of respondents in the aforementioned survey believe so. "You can spend a little more than usual on Chinese New Year in order to take the opportunity to indulge yourself and relax. However, don't spend too much," Xu warned. "After all, there is a new year ahead of you."

Photo: VCG  

Photo: VCG Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass China eyes building next-generation fighter jets by 2035China 'likely' to see steady increase in 2019 defense budgetChinese students slam union candidate over separatist posts Chinese runner to finish pole-to-pole trekLA teachers strike shows failure of America's public school system2019 Rose Parade held in Pasadena How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐