Giant Huawei billboard at the Warsaw Chopin Airport of Poland Photo: Shan Jie/GT
The Chinese embassy in Poland on Wednesday urged the country to continue providing a fair, just and transparent investment environment for Chinese companies and to ensure that China-Poland ties are not disrupted or damaged by US provocations.

"We hope Poland will uphold principles of independence and make objective and just decisions," read a statement released on the embassy's website on Wednesday night.
The statement said China has noticed that certain individuals from the US have been trying to disrupt China's relations with other countries through threats or offering inducements. They especially smear and suppress Chinese companies with fabricated charges without evidence.
Such bullying behavior is ridiculous and immoral, it read.
"Healthy and stable China-Poland ties cater to the shared interests of the two countries and our peoples," read the statement.
China and Poland have seen rich achievements in cooperation in different aspects under the Belt and Road Initiative and the 16+1 cooperation framework in recent years, which has brought practical benefits to both peoples. In the future, China-Poland cooperation will continue to have great potential and broad prospects.
Chinese Ambassador to Poland, Liu Guangyuan, told the Global Times in an interview in December 2018 that Chinese companies are very attentive to social responsibility, as they promote localization, operate legally and participate in public welfare. "They have contributed to the social and economic development of Poland."
In January, Poland arrested a Chinese businessman who formerly worked at China's telecommunication giant Huawei on espionage allegations. Poland also announced it was considering banning Huawei products from public bodies over security concerns, Reuters reported.
A New York Times article published in late January implied that US officials had gone to countries such as Germany and Poland to ask their local counterparts to ban the Chinese telecoms equipment provider, which is the largest of its kind worldwide. Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass China eyes building next-generation fighter jets by 2035China 'likely' to see steady increase in 2019 defense budgetChinese students slam union candidate over separatist posts Chinese runner to finish pole-to-pole trekLA teachers strike shows failure of America's public school system2019 Rose Parade held in Pasadena How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐