On Capitol Hill Tuesday, US national security experts and intelligence committee officials raised the alarm about the global rise of so-called authoritarianism during a hearing. They defined China and Russia as two representatives of authoritarianism. Andrea Kendall-Taylor, a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, said straightforwardly that China and Russia have sought to "undermine democracy promotion." "If current trends persist, authoritarianism will soon become the most common way that democracies crumble and autocracies emerge," she said.These US politicians' definition of China was completely wrong. It once again reflects that some US elites do not understand China at all. The concept of so-called authoritarianism originated in the 1980s during the Cold War, and it has many limitations today. The political concept no longer fits current international politics, especially China's development. It is surprising that some US politicians are still using the obsolete concept to read China. They have obviously failed to keep up with the times.Thanks to its reform and opening-up, China has developed its own political model. The Chinese policy has unswervingly gone through four decades of glory and China will open its arms even wider to the world. This was unimaginable for some Western politicians. After all, how many Western policies can develop steadily for four decades without any economic crisis?In other words, the political model that China has adopted and developed does not exist in the US politics textbook. It may also be beyond many US elites' comprehension. But instead of trying to understand and observe China more objectively, why are some US politicians stubbornly discussing whether China represents authoritarianism or not?So what exactly is China's model? The answer depends on the country's experience and practice. It is wrong to randomly label China as authoritarian or any other obsolete political concept. This is a very serious problem existing in current international politics: Defining China without objectively observing the country. Such an old mind-set led to Washington's tougher policies, or its containment strategy, toward Beijing. For example, the US has been treating China's Huawei Technologies from a political perspective. Some Chinese and US observers even predicted that there may be a potential technology cold war between Beijing and Washington. Such technological encirclement shows that the US has been holding onto an obsolete political view.In the eyes of those narrow-minded US elites, a country's model is either absolute democracy or tyranny. There seems to be no other choice. But instead of following Western countries' steps, China has found its own development path. Now China is the second largest economy in the world, and the country's rise has proved that its model is not only practical but also successful. Maybe that is unacceptable to some Western elites and has made them uncomfortable. Western countries may need to reform their fundamental subjects, such as politics and economics, by adding China's development experience. And we want to tell some US elites that China will never be the reason why "democracies crumble." Instead of blaming China, why not view the country more objectively and learn something from it? Nepal gauges interests in choosing China rail normScholarly article documents Western stereotyping of ChinaChinese-run railway in Ethiopia gives regional development much-needed boost US massage industry needs regulations for developmentFirecracker RunCA to scale back $77b high-speed rail project How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐