Promotional material for The Wandering Earth Photos: ICChina's film authority is preparing to establish an ethics committee to set higher moral criteria for industry employees after a slew of recent scandals has prevented the release of several high-profile movies. It is a pity and a big loss to investors if good films could not be released because movie actors had become embroiled in scandals, said Wang Xiaohui, director of the Film Bureau of National Radio and Television Administration, at a film industry forum in Beijing on Wednesday.  He called for the film industry to enhance moral construction and industry celebrities to preserve their integrity, the WeChat public account of  the People's Daily reported.The move comes amid recent cases where many movies were affected, even canceled, after revelations of misconduct by actors were revealed, which attracted a deluge of criticism on social media. The most recent example is the movie A Boyfriend For my Girlfriend. Slated for release on February 5, the first day of the Chinese Lunar New Year, the movie was postponed to an undisclosed date after one of the stars, Wu Xiubo, 51, was reported to have had a seven-year affair with a young actress for seven years.The film reportedly cost about 400 million yuan ($60 million). In addition to establishing an ethics committee, Shi Wenxue, a Beijing-based film critic, told the Global Times on Thursday that "It would help better manage performers or other contracted staff if film producers include a moral conduct clause in movie contracts."Wang said the film industry should create new epics for the nation, take the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation as the theme and build national heroes. Chinese films should adhere to the ideological bottom line and not challenge the political system or hurt people's feelings, he said. Shi pointed out that one problem is that heroes in some Chinese films are stereotypes, lacking individuality. "They should express more humanity to touch the hearts of audiences."Cheng Qingsong, chief editor of film journal Youth Film Handbook, agreed with Shi, adding that domestic film makers should try to root out stories from daily life as well as traditional culture and form their own storytelling style.       A total of 1,082 films were produced in China last year. The total national box office nearly reached 61 billion yuan, according to Wang. The number of screens is estimated to reach 80,000 in 2020, rising from 60,079 in 2018, he said. As a whole, the Chinese film industry still lags behind Hollywood and Bollywood in storytelling, Wang said at the forum.He added that the industry should fight to produce more than 100 films with each one's box office returns exceeding 100 million yuan per year.The Wednesday forum was attended by local film officials as well as industry representatives, including director Zhang Yimou, actress Zhang Ziyi and Wu Jing, who starred in the patriotic mega-hit Wolf Warrior movies and recent sci-fi blockbuster The Wandering Earth.Newspaper headline: Movies to get ethical guidance Nepal gauges interests in choosing China rail normScholarly article documents Western stereotyping of ChinaChinese-run railway in Ethiopia gives regional development much-needed boost Fire drillUS massage industry needs regulations for developmentFirecracker Run How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐