Staying smart for the holiday periodBy Li Qian My Spring Festival holidays this year mainly featured smartphones. While perfectly aware that the ubiquity of smartphones has changed ordinary Chinese people's lives, I was still amazed by how deeply they had entered my parents' daily lives during our brief festival family reunion.  On the day my parents took a high-speed train in my hometown Shandong before Spring Festival to visit me in Beijing for the holiday period, my mother's phone battery suffered a glitch, losing all power just a few minutes after a full recharge. She began to panic.Not only was most of her entertainment on the phone, she had also digitalized much of her social life, and even does some of her work on the phone.  So the first thing they did after arriving in Beijing was head to the phone shop and buy a Huawei gadget which had just hit the market.  During the holidays, both my parents were as glued to their screens as I was. My father, a well-read, veteran member of the Communist Party of China, in his 60s, enjoyed watching an online senior citizens' matchmaking show in much of his spare time, while my mother turned out to have accumulated over 1,000 fans on a singing app where she uploads her traditional opera singing.  She proudly showed me her recorded singing on the app and the enthusiastic comments, roses and "gifts" left by her followers. Some of them were relatives and neighbors, but most were complete strangers around the country who followed her only on the strength of her performances. I knew that my mother enjoyed singing Yuju and Peking Opera as a hobby, but seeing her with such a big group of followers with the same interest was a very pleasant surprise.  The seniors' dating show that my father enjoyed on his phone had originally been broadcast on TV from a province in Central China. But with fewer people watching TV, the shows have found their way onto smartphones, and are now conveniently available on video apps.  Both my parents are also fans of short-video sharing app Douyin, one of the most successful Chinese phone apps in recent years, which has an overseas edition called TikTok.   So during the holidays, whenever we weren't outside enjoying the peace of an empty Beijing, my father would turn on the app after a meal while perched on the couch, as my mother, after cleaning the kitchen, put on her headphones to learn some new opera hits.  Even more interestingly, those phone apps don't merely provide entertainment and social-networking, some of them are also a major source of education.  It was reported during the holidays that a hit phone app, called Xuexiqiangguo, topped the chart of downloads on phone app markets. My mother is also one of the millions of people around China who use this app, as requested by her employer, a middle school.  This app was packed with news, CPC policies, state regulations, and a slew of video content coming directly from state broadcaster CCTV and archived films. Users gain marks as they spend time reading through articles, watching videos and taking quizzes.  

A group of senior citizens in Hangzhou, capital of East China's Zhejiang Province, dance to popular music on the Douyin platform. Photo: IC Since it came online, the app has been widely promoted by government departments and public institutions around China as a useful tool to keep Party members and employees updated on the country's current affairs.  My mother would also test me while she took her own quizzes on subjects ranging from the Party congress spirit to the China-US trade conflict, showing how national news and directives reached ordinary citizens directly and conveniently top-down through such an app.  As my mother was happily pursuing her "opera mission" on her phone, she found that its speakers were generating some unwanted noise and decided to have it checked out by the phone shop.  So I contacted the Huawei after-sales service and had it looked at on the first workday after the holidays. The company offered to change it for a brand new phone or give a refund.  My father, a big Huawei fan, decided to get a refund but asked me to buy a higher-end phone on the Huawei product series for my mother instead, as he trusts this brand as being the most durable. As a result, by the end of the Spring Festival holidays, all the members of my family, including my sister in another city, were using top-notch Huawei products.   

People get out of their cars to stretch their legs as tens of thousands of vehicles are stuck in heavy traffic in Haikou, capital of South China's Hainan Province, on the last day of Spring Festival holiday in 2018. Photo: IC New year, new destinationBy Zhang Yu in SanyaBeach, sunshine, ocean breeze and palm trees - these are not the things that usually come to mind when you talk about a traditional Spring Festival. But this is exactly how I spent this year's holidays with my family in the southern resort city of Sanya, South China's Hainan Province.Instead of having a Lunar New Year's Eve meal of homemade dishes and dumplings, we had a big dinner in a restaurant specializing in Hainan's special coconut chicken broth hot pot, and watched the Spring Festival gala in the hotel where we stayed. We didn't visit as many relatives from our large family as usual, but traveling with my husband's parents after not seeing them for almost a year was a good enough family reunion. To be honest, Sanya is a pricey destination during the Chinese Lunar New Year. The price for a return ticket from Beijing to Hainan is nearly 4,500 yuan ($664), enough for a round trip to Europe during the low season. Most hotels cost over 1,500 yuan per night, and some with better sea views can go up to 3,000 yuan each night, almost as much as a five-star hotel in New York. In total, the 5-day trip cost my family over 35,000 yuan.But the higher-than-usual prices didn't seem to do anything to deter Chinese holidaymakers. About 1 million tourists chose to spend their Spring Festival holidays in Sanya this year, according to the city's tourism authorities. We stayed in two hotels during our entire trip, and both were fully booked. Hotel check-in staff were so busy that they had virtually no time to take a break. A decade ago, the idea of traveling during the Spring Festival season would have been unconventional for many Chinese. But today, traveling has almost become the new normal for Chinese people, turning the weeklong holiday into another golden week for tourism.China's various tourist destinations received 415 million tourists during the holiday period, a 7.6 percent rise from the year before, according to statistics from the China Tourism Academy, a Beijing-based research institution. Altogether, tourism revenue during the holidays came to 513.9 billion yuan.And Chinese are  to an increasingly diverse range of destinations around the world. Statistics from online travel agency Ctrip show that Chinese travelers visited 1,372 cities in 97 countries and regions, up from 82 the year before. Booking data shows that Chinese flight bookings to the UK from January 30 to February 12 rose 24 percent year on year.Another new feature emerged this year: Tourists are paying more attention to the quality of travel. According to a report by Ctrip, people opting for higher-quality accommodation rose by 45.3 percent in the Spring Festival period.Travel made up just part of the total spending of Chinese consumers during the past Spring Festival holidays. Shopping and dining-out also contributed to the massive amounts of money spent, despite worries of a consumption downturn over the past few years.According to the Ministry of Commerce, spending on retail goods and dining during the seven-day holiday period reached 1.005 trillion yuan, exceeding 1 trillion for the first time. That's an 8.5 percent growth rate year-on-year.While the growth rate dropped, Chinese people now value quality over quantity.A report by e-commerce site JD shows that mobile phones, computers and home appliances were the top three best-selling categories in terms of revenue during the Chinese Lunar New Year. Compared with the past, when people mainly gave food as New Year's gifts, this new trend shows how the livelihoods of Chinese people have improved over the past decade.The report also said that the biggest growth in consumption power came from people in fourth- to sixth-tier cities. This shows how small town Chinese are also joining the country's buying spree, as people who work in the larger cities return to their hometowns during the holidays and help mobilize buying power in China's rural areas. 
Newspaper headline: Hometown Journal Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass China eyes building next-generation fighter jets by 2035China 'likely' to see steady increase in 2019 defense budgetChinese students slam union candidate over separatist posts CA to scale back $77b high-speed rail projectSoCal alumni association of top university celebrates Chinese lunar new year120th Golden Dragon Parade held in LA How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐