Some Chinese think that wearing makeup is not exclusive to women any longer and it has nothing to do with gender as it's a personal choice. Photo: VCGA young woman with a cosmetic brush in hand applied shimmering purple-tinted powder to a man's face. The 20-year-old man surnamed Shi sits in front of a mirror and one of his female classmates helped style his makeup. "The first time I put on cosmetics, I felt I loved it. It gave me a fresher appearance," Shi said.Every time when he goes out to a dance party with friends, the university student asks female peers for help. "I don't know how to wear makeup and I need help. It's not a daily routine for me," he said.Luo, a 21-year-old university student from Shanghai, commonly applies ivory foundation to make his face look delicate and smooth. "I like to wear cosmetics but it doesn't mean I'm not masculine. Being called a sissy makes me feel angry," he said. Lou's view is echoed by Shi. "The term 'sissy pants' is too derogatory and it's wrong for anyone to judge a person based on appearance," he added. Driven by legions of Chinese female fans, an increasing number of "little fresh meat" ("Xiaoxianrou") and male makeup vloggers have become immensely popular on the internet, which has triggered the debate about whether some Chinese young men have been losing masculinity and turning feminine. What makes a man a man, has become a question that has been covered by some media outlets."Makeup is not exclusive to women any longer. A man who wears makeup can be masculine," Shi said.Controversial cosmeticsA man should be responsible. "Learning how to improve yourself in all aspects is the first step," Chen Junchen said. As he sees it, appearance matters today and can even be seen as a part of self-consciousness. "We have to admit that most people subconsciously judge others at the first sight," said Chen, the owner of a brow bar, Mr. Brow, which features providing grooming service to any gender in Sanlitun, Chaoyang district in Beijing. There are male consumers that go to his bar and ask for makeup service as well. "Most of them wear makeup for formal situations, so they don't wear too much, but only put on foundation and eyebrow penciling," Chen said. "Grooming is a way to show respect." According to a report by Jing Daily, a Chinese digital publication launched in 2009, the male beauty consumption in China is predicted to see a 13.5 percent growth in 2019, research firm Euromonitor said."We are enjoying a more abundant life. People have the need and money to care more about their appearance. It's positive," Chen said. In the spotlight In most people's eyes, men's makeup is acceptable but should be used in a proper way. "Although there is no need for a man to be blamed for grooming, I still can't stand a man who puts on too much makeup. It's not masculine," said Gao Le, a 25-year-old ski shop owner. Chen calls for appropriate makeup that can help promote self-confidence. "Don't overdo makeup, but just ensure that your look is fresh. It's good for building up confidence," Chen said. Some men, however, choose to wear heavy makeup for diverse reasons.Last year, the debate sparked about whether Chinese men are becoming feminine. On September 1, 2018, four male celebrities performed in a television special First Class of the New Semester that was aired by CCTV and were termed by Chinese Net users as "effeminate" because of their delicate appearance and feminine behavior. Under the influence of Korean-pop aesthetic, some stars like Lu Han and Cai Xukun are among the "little fresh meat," who have attracted many Chinese female fans for flawless skin and boyish behavior. "This kind of aesthetic belongs to a unique group of people, who don't represent the majority," said a man, 31, surnamed Zhang. In the media spotlight, we are given an illusion that most young men are like Lu and Cai. "It's possible that their images were shaped like that to cater to fans. I hope the trend will change in the future or it may have a negative influence on younger generations," Zhang said.Li Jiaqi, a Douyin wanghong (internet celebrity) gives females recommendations about how to choose lipsticks by personally wearing the different shades. He already has nearly 130 million fans on the Douyin short video app. When it comes to male vloggers who go viral on Twitter-like Weibo and Douyin like Li, people think that if they dedicate themselves to the beauty industry and have realized their value through their job, then they deserve respect from others. Remove the label Chen once had a conversation with a customer who was in his 50s. The man told Chen that grooming is traditionally labeled feminine, which made him feel embarrassed to ask for service there even though he had a need for grooming services. As an individual, we all want to show our best in front of others, the man had expressed to Chen. "The love of beauty is an essential part of the human being, it has nothing to do with gender," said 19-year-old student surnamed Jing at the Capital University of Economics in Beijing. Pink is historically seen as a girl's color, and wearing the color as makeup has been labeled a female thing. Chinese well-known sociologist and sexologist Li Yinhe, sees these types of ideas as a reflection of gender stereotypes. She said that our culture has defined how men and women should behave in a masculine or feminine manner. But as an individual, no one should be restricted by this convention. "And our society has witnessed some phenomena that have broken gender stereotypes," Li said in a public speech on July 29, 2018.There are male stars putting on various types of makeup to contribute to their performance styles and young men who wear makeup confidently walking on the street. Some of them might choose to wear makeup because they belong to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender groups. "It's free for them to show who they really are in our society. It's a good thing," Gao said. As some interviewees see it, China has become more inclusive. "You can be yourself, as a unique individual, no matter which gender," Jing said. Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass When modern fandom meets traditional folk artsModi reforms for foreign investment worth applauseZara denies denigrating Asian model in latest ad US massage industry needs regulations for developmentFirecracker RunCA to scale back $77b high-speed rail project How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐