Chinese national Yang Fenglan (center), dubbed the “Ivory Queen,” is led by security personnel on Tuesday, in Dar es Salaam, to appear in court on charges of trafficking elephant tusks. Yang, 69, was sentenced to 15 years in jail for her role in trafficking tusks from more than 350 elephants. Photo: AFPYang Fenglan, a Chinese businesswoman dubbed the "ivory queen," was sentenced to 15 years in jail by a court in the Tanzanian city of Dar es Salaam on Tuesday. She was accused of smuggling the tusks of more than 350 elephants worth $2.5 million from Tanzania to Asia.China was the world's largest importer and consumer of elephant tusks, which has drawn criticism from international media and wildlife conservation groups. When a ban on ivory sales in China took effect in late 2017, observers largely hailed this decision and called it a vital step forward to saving the endangered species.China has backed Yang's conviction and expressed willingness to cooperate with other countries to crack down on the illegal trade.The demand for exotic wildlife comes not only from China, but also across Asia. In a report in March last year, Quartz cited a study which revealed that Asian imports of African wildlife have increased nearly tenfold since 2006.  Ivory markets in countries such as Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar remain active. What is worse, most ivory products are transited through Hong Kong owing to its geography and position as a free port, and Hong Kong plans to outlaw this practice in 2021.Cross-border trade is not a one-country issue, and a single country cannot complete the task of protecting endangered animals. Each country regulates its own market as the first step and cooperation with others within the framework of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora can be the next move. As China's ban would curb domestic demand for ivory products, it can serve as a role model for the region and beyond.Given the rampant illegal wildlife trade in Southeast Asia and full-fledged China-ASEAN ties, China can take the initiative of raising the agenda of wildlife protection with its ASEAN partners and make it into a regular cooperation mechanism. As early as 2012, officials from ASEAN and China met to enhance collaboration on combating wildlife trafficking. The issue also offers incentives for China and the US to cooperate. Setting aside the volatile ties caused by the South China Sea issue and the simmering trade conflict, wildlife preservation is a desirable endeavor that could generate a positive impulse for the China-US relationship. In July 2013, a bilateral dialogue was launched as part of the US-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue. Two years later, high-ranking officials from both sides held talks and agreed to work on the matter. In the current political situation, China and the US are more in need of building trust and displaying solidarity to the world, and fighting illegal wildlife poaching and trade is a step in the right direction.Meanwhile, as these countries cooperate and regulate wildlife trade within their own markets, they should join hands with the African region from where a large portion of illegal animal products come. For instance, they should control transit points and develop effective law enforcement practices. Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass When modern fandom meets traditional folk artsModi reforms for foreign investment worth applauseZara denies denigrating Asian model in latest ad US massage industry needs regulations for developmentFirecracker RunCA to scale back $77b high-speed rail project How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐