Tourists walk under lanterns on a street in a Qingzhou ancient town in Weifang, East China's Shandong Province on Saturday. Lanterns were decorated in the ancient town for the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year. Photo: VCG
 "With or without money, go home for Spring Festival" seems to be the prevailing sentiment that drives millions of Chinese to head home ahead of the most important holiday for family reunions. Meanwhile, some others, mostly from China's booming services sector, choose to stick to their posts during the week-long holidays to serve other people, a scenario that offers a glimpse of China's hardworking grass-roots workers, who have been a major driving force of the country's economic growth.Dou Liguo is a delivery man who has been living in Beijing for over 20 years. The 43-year-old man told the Global Times Friday night that he will not return to his hometown - Siping in Northeast China's Jilin Province - this year and will spend this traditional festival without his parents. "Some of my co-workers are back home, but I chose to work through the holidays because someone needs to keep our delivery service functioning," he said. Among migrant workers who are not going home for family reunions, many of them work in the services sector as delivery persons, cleaners and salesmen. They are ordinary, hardworking Chinese people, who have been living far away from their hometowns and chasing their dreams in big cities such as Beijing and Shanghai. Their personal ambitions and diligence also shaped China's economic miracle today. Those who stick to their posts also help ease the shortage of labor during the holiday. Some online service provider platforms have already adjusted their services and informed consumers about the shortage of workers, according to industry news site ccn.com.cn. During Spring Festival, the prices of the top 10 services, such as house cleaning services, have been raised by an average of 3 to 23 percent, the report said.Authorities have also vowed to stabilize prices, which might be volatile due to changes in supply and demand. "Relevant departments and enterprises have been fully prepared to ensure abundant supply during the festival and to stabilize prices," Wang Bin, deputy director of the Department of Market Operations under the Chinese Ministry of Commerce, told a press briefing on Tuesday. Consumption in catering, tourism, culture and entertainment sectors is expected to see significant growth during the week-long holiday, Wang said.The lives and working conditions of those who stick to their position during the holiday is also what China's leadership cares about. After visiting grass-roots government employees and residents in hutong, or traditional alley, in central Beijing's Qianmen, President Xi Jinping also went to a property service center on Friday to visit staff and community workers. On the way back, Xi dropped in on a restaurant, talked to the owner and some customers and wished them good luck ahead of Spring Festival. Xi also called on a nearby express delivery station and visited the deliverymen on duty, stressing that priority should be given to solving employment problems and creating more jobs.In his 2019 New Year Speech, Xi also expressed appreciation for deliverymen, street cleaners, taxi drivers, and countless others who are sticking to post during New Year holidays."We should thank these workers who contribute to the creation of our beautiful society. Their hard work is much appreciated," Xi said. Key services sectorCompared to Western countries such as the US and Japan, China has seen services sector grow faster, driven by emerging economies, which also reflects the country's economic restructuring, Bai Ming, a research fellow at the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation, told the Global Times on Saturday.China's GDP exceeded 90 trillion yuan ($13 trillion) in 2018, of which the services sector played the role as stabilizer, and the tertiary sector accounted for 52.2 percent of total economic activity, Ning Jizhe, head of the National Bureau of Statistics, told a press briefing in January. Meanwhile, consumption contributed 76.2 percent to the overall growth, 18.6 percentage points higher than in 2017. Spring Festival is also the first shopping spree for 2019. China's growing middle class, combined with the country's generation Z, the generation born after 1995 and the leading group in new consumption trends, are major driving forces of holiday spending. "The spree is the peak season for tourism every year. When people enjoy holidays and family reunions, we're at our busiest," Guo Qing, vice president of Chinese online services provider Meituan and general manager of its hotel and domestic travel business, told the Global Times.  "The guardians of a better life" is also an honor for those who work over the holidays, he noted.Newspaper headline: Services sector key to strong economy Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass New village loudspeaker campaign aims to spread ideological messageWill US tech cold war against China's 5G split world?India-Pakistan row thwarts regional cooperation Chinese runner to finish pole-to-pole trekLA teachers strike shows failure of America's public school system2019 Rose Parade held in Pasadena How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐