Illustration: Luo Xuan/GTWhen US Senator Elizabeth Warren officially launched her 2020 US presidential bid not long ago, she said it would be a campaign against the US' rich. Some Democratic US lawmakers even proposed a tax of up to 70 percent on the wealthy. The rationale behind those moves is the fact that more and more Americans are dissatisfied with the widening gap between the rich and the poor.Media have cited recent research published by Gabriel Zucman, a professor at UC Berkeley, as saying that the US has one of the world's largest gaps between the rich and poor. Currently, the wealthiest 0.1 percent of US families own about 20 percent of the country's total wealth.According to the research, the richest 1.26 million American families have $26.8 million on average per household. That is 40 times higher than the average US household. The rapid polarization of the rich and the poor is leading to growing social problems in the US.Some UK scholars argue that the fundamental reason for the US' rapidly expanding wealth gap is the US government's neoliberal policy system, which focuses on privatization, marketization and liberation and protects the interests of the rich.For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 left a positive impression at first glance, with content like enhancing company investment vitality by lowering corporate tax, as well as increasing citizens' income and buying power by lowering personal income tax. But deeper analysis has shown that this law mainly serves the rich. Corporate income tax accounts for less than 5 percent of US federal revenue. The reason for that is because the bulk of corporate profits go to the companies. When companies' financial assets grow, it first benefits business owners.As for the personal income tax cut, according to preliminary research by the Tax Policy Center, the policy would mostly benefit the wealthy. Because of the tax reduction, Americans with an annual income higher than $730,000 could see their after-tax income surge by 8.5 percent year-on-year, while families falling out of the richest top 5 percent would only see their after-tax income increase by 1.2 percent year-on-year.This growing gap between the rich and the poor has naturally triggered the return of calls for "socialism" in the US, including the proposal raised by Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders in 2016 to regulate the gap between the rich and the poor, as well as New York Democratic Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's proposal to levy a 70 percent tax on the rich.A government that serves all citizens should use taxes and other methods to achieve second time distribution, check capital, support the poor and keep the gap between the rich and the poor within bounds.In order to achieve that, the highest personal income tax rate needs to be increased. Some people may say this is not fair for rich people and that rich people might flee if the tax is too high. Of course, by what extent the highest personal income tax rate should be increased still needs to be discussed, maybe far less than 70 percent, but increasing tax for the rich is a must. This is not unfair as rich people's wealth accumulation can't exist without economic activity, and economic activity can't exist without laborers' contributions.Another important leverage tool is the legacy tax. A high legacy tax is helpful for reducing rich people's desire for property inheritance as well as prompting them to make more donations, which can benefit the whole society.The author is an executive council member of the China Society for World Trade Organization Studies. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims