In a photo taken on February 17, 2019, the sun rises behind buildings in the Pyongyang skyline in North Korea. Photo: VCG
The sanctions on North Korea to some extent have impacted "the capacity of the ICRC [International Committee of the Red Cross] to deliver humanitarian assistance" to the country in a timely manner, head of the ICRC Mission in Pyongyang Thierry Ribaux, said Wednesday.The second summit between US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un concluded on Thursday in Hanoi, capital of Vietnam. No agreement was reached at this time. "It was about the sanctions," Trump said at a news conference after the meetings. "They wanted the sanctions lifted in their entirety and we couldn't do that."In Wednesday's exclusive interview with the Global Times, Ribaux, who is currently in Pyongyang, said that "a more strict enforcement of the sanctions regime might make the running of humanitarian operations more complicated." He called for a de-politicization of humanitarian issues. He is concerned that if the present positive dynamics cannot last, the "potential window of opportunity to address key humanitarian issues linked to the Korean War might not open."The ICRC is engaged in a range of activities in North Korea, including a water supply and sanitation project in Kaesong city, a weapons decontamination program and support to the emergency department of Pyongyang Medical College Hospital.The ICRC is not the only NGO that has met difficulties operating in North Korea due to sanctions. A dozen officials at UN agencies and civilian organizations said in a Reuters report that while the sanctions do not impinge directly on humanitarian work, curtailing banking and shipping transactions with North Korea as well as a travel ban for US citizens have led to shutdown of operations of most humanitarian groups in the country. "Importing humanitarian assistance into North Korea remains difficult and complex, and in some cases does delay implementation, adding an element of uncertainty in what is already a challenging operational context," Ribaux said in the e-mail interview. According to Ribaux, the resulting lack of access to North Korea's banking system due to sanctions prevents them from transferring the funds needed to conduct humanitarian aid activities, which also makes it impossible to scale up humanitarian work in the country. But Ribaux believes that the present evolution of the current geopolitical dynamics "might create an environment that will be more conducive to address issues of humanitarian concerns linked to the 1950-53 Korean War." The ICRC is ready to offer support for separated families and the dignified management of human remains of those killed during the war, he said.  Lü Chao, a research fellow at the Liaoning Academy of Social Sciences, told the Global Times that sanctions have brought enormous pressure on North Korea. "Due to the reduction in foreign agriculture cooperation and North Korea's food production, the country is facing food shortages."Lü called for international society to pay attention to this. He stressed that only if the humanitarian dilemma is addressed first can the denuclearization on the Korean Peninsula be achieved. Newspaper headline: Stricter enforcement of sanctions on NK may complicate humanitarian work: ICRC Nepal gauges interests in choosing China rail normScholarly article documents Western stereotyping of ChinaChinese-run railway in Ethiopia gives regional development much-needed boost Fire drillUS massage industry needs regulations for developmentFirecracker Run How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐