Parents see "Reverse Chunyun" as a good chance to reunite with their children in big cities during Chinese New Year. Photo: VCGHolding a yellow box full of fresh vegetables and two huge bags of homemade salted chicken and sausages, Chen Jing and her husband arrived at the Beijing West Railway Station. A young woman is waiting outside for the reunion. Fang Wei, the daughter, recalls the day that her parents arrived in Beijing. It was January 26, 2019, around a week before Chinese New Year. Now, for many young people like Fang, the week-long holiday of the festival has finished and they have occupied themselves with the duties of a new year once again. "We will stay with my daughter until the spring comes," Chen said. Unlike Chen, Fang Yun, 57, and her husband have packed their luggage and are ready to go back home to Northeast China. Although her daughter, Zhang Duowei had only enjoyed three days off from work for the holiday, she companied her parents to Ditan Temple Fair at Ditan Park for sightseeing as a way to celebrate Spring Festival. "The holiday of the festival in Beijing was awesome, because we were with our daughter," Fang recalled.  Reunion means a lot to Chinese people like Fang and Chen who hold on to the sacred cultural tradition. For Spring Festival, many young people who work in big cities travel back to their home for an annual family gathering. The Spring Festival travel rush, or Chunyun, is how Chinese people coin this annual migration. According to the Xinhua News Agency, about three billion trips have been made via China's transport system during Chunyun this year. However, a trend called "Reverse Chunyun," a phenomenon that more and more young people choose to reunite with their parents at where they work has been growing in popularity. Chen and Fan have become a part of many Chinese who choose moving with the reversal.Reverse ChunyunThere are many possibilities for a family to choose reverse migration. For most young people, there are only seven days off from work for Chinese New Year. There is no exception for Fang, who works in Beijing as a lawyer. "My daughter's holiday is short," said Chen, who retired a few years ago and enjoys plenty of free time. Fang sees this holiday as a good chance to show her parents around in Beijing. "I want my parents to come here and experience something new," Fang said. "And I'll take my mom for a health checkup." Zhang, who works as a journalist in a news organization, has to work overtime during the festival. "There is too much pressure from work for my daughter, we can take care of her and help her with some housework during the holiday," said Fang. Gathering in Beijing, recalling home Many kilometers away from Beijing in Fang's hometown in Xinyang, Henan Province, her parents have their own garden in which they grow vegetables themselves. "My parents brought these unique ingredients from home for the reunion dinner. All are my favorite," Fang said. "These are delicious." The flavor of hometown makes Fang feel like that she was being in Xinyang. "My hometown is full of festivities," Fang recalled. In rural areas of Xinyang, people set off firecrackers to bid farewell to the past year and welcome a new one."During the 15-day festival, relatives visit each other with extending greetings for the coming new year," Fang said. Her husband surnamed Lü, who came from Zhangye, Gansu Province, nodded, saying that there are many colorful celebrations in his hometown as well. "Village troupes will perform Caigaoqiao (walking on stilts) and the popular Lanzhou Taiping drum dance (Taiping literally means peace in Chinese). These performances are supposed to bring good luck," Lü explained. "In terms of reunion cuisine, sweet and sour carp tops the table in Xinyang," Fang said. The ingredient for this dish is Asian Carp (Li Yü). Yü is a homophone for "abundance" and it is seen as a symbol of rich life and blessings. The tradition of eating sweet and sour carp has been carried on to their home in Beijing. Most of the things are similar to the Spring Festival in their hometown, Fang said.While sightseeing in Beijing with her children, Chen feels happy. "We went to temple fairs where red Chinese paper-cut impressed me," she said. "I feel our life is getting better and better."Fang Yun shares the same feeling with Chen but finds more interest in Beijing than her hometown. There were good vibes at the Temple Fair. "I enjoy the days in Beijing. We prepare food for our daughter, just like what we did for her when she was still very young," Fang said. All for reunionChen and her husband have already done such a reversal during 2017 Chinese New Year. "This is not the first time my parents have come here for a reunion," Fang said. And her parents are not alone. Liu Gengchong, 72, has done the same for the past three years with his wife. Every Spring Festival, they migrate to Beijing for a reunion with their son. In 2019, however, this trend seems more apparent, data from online travel agency Ctrip, cited by Xinhua, shows that plane tickets sold to children and passengers over 50 years old during the week before 2019 Chinese New Year's Eve rose by 39 percent and 42 percent year-on-year respectively."We can celebrate the new year everywhere as long as families are together," Liu said. Nowadays, more and more people have changed their minds and feel free to spend the traditional festival in other places. They find that the reunion is the most important meaning to them. "Reunion means a lot, although we have no relatives in Beijing, being with my daughter and son-in-law makes me feel happy," said Chen.Critics online take note of  "Reverse Chunyun." Some Chinese netizens say young people should not let their parents suffer such a strenuous journey. Fang Wei thinks the opposite. "My parents are healthy and they want to travel around," she said. And the high-speed train makes the travel shorter and more comfortable for seniors. "The ticket price for a single journey is around 400 yuan ($59) and it only takes them about four hours from southern Henan to Beijing and the vegetables are still fresh," Fang said. There are also voices that dislike the modern term of "Reverse Chunyun" partly because some of the young people have already put down their roots in big cities like Beijing - their second home. A military surgeon in Beijing who chose to remain anonymous chose to take her parents from her hometown in Shaanxi Province to Beijing because she needs to work during the festival. She is already married and has settled down in Beijing with her husband. "This [should not be labeled as] reverse Chunyun, because I'm merely taking my parents back home,"  she said. Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass China refutes Turkish FM's accusation on Xinjiang training centersChina eyes building next-generation fighter jets by 2035Huawei row goes beyond open conflict Chinese runner to finish pole-to-pole trekLA teachers strike shows failure of America's public school system2019 Rose Parade held in Pasadena How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐