Catching up with the CityBy Shan Jie in HezeI have spent every Lunar New Year in my "old home" Juye, even though I had never truly lived there.It is my father's hometown. I was born and raised in Jinan, capital city of East China's Shandong Province. Juye is a county with a population of half a million people, and is administered by Heze city in southeastern Shandong, which used to be considered the least advanced region in the coastal province. Most of my relatives live there. To them, I have always been a "city girl."My grandparents' home was in a northern town. Over the decades, the house has been upgraded. After its last renovation, it was a three-floor replica of a Western style building, complete with a table tennis room and a vegetable plot. But the house has never had heating or tap water.

A part of Shaodong county, Central China's Hunan Province Photo: IC In China, it is a fact that there has long been a big gap in development level between big cities and small ones or rural areas.In the past, I was often able to share stories of experiencing "rural life" in my hometown with my city peers.However, this Lunar New Year, I found it hard to keep up with the changes that had taken place in Juye. In many ways, quality of life in the small county has surpassed that of big cities.More than 10 years ago, a coal mine was found in Juye and factories were built, making it stand out among its neighboring counties. In 2014, the local government initiated a project to renovate the old town and launch an "urbanization" drive. As a part of the project, our house was torn down in 2017 after the family moved into a newly-built 11-floor apartment. The town is modernizing, so are people's lives.

Shoppers open lockers using a facial-recognition system in a supermarket in Juye, East China's Shandong Province. Photo: Shan Jie/GTTaste of ItalyBefore the New Year, I had to get a haircut. My sister-in-law, a social butterfly who knows almost half the people in town, volunteered to take me to a good hairdresser.There is a superstition in northern China that says if you cut your hair during the first lunar month, your mother's brother will die. Since my uncle is still alive, I felt I had better follow the old way of thinking and get my hair done before the Spring Festival.In a small city like Juye, a hairdresser that all the locals know usually becomes a top social spot.My sister-in-law drove me to a salon she recommended -Armani Fashion Style. It did not remind me much of the Italian brand Armani, but in my hometown, everything related to Italy is considered fashionable. One nearby boutique is named Sicilia."Dahai, the owner, is a master of women's hairstyles," she enthused.The room was not big but it was well-decorated and raucous, filled with women chatting loudly and children crying. Ten seconds after entering the salon, my sister-in-law saw several women she knew and began to greet them."You must be very busy these days," she warmly said to one of the hairdressers, a woman with short cobalt blue hair that looked like a wig.Another woman with an LV handbag came to say hello. She runs several KTVs in Beijing. "The county governor's wife and many rich ladies also do their hair here," my sister-in-law told me. I didn't doubt it  - the table by the door was littered with Mercedes and Porsche car keys.Unfortunately, Dahai was not at his best that day. He had just woken up with a hangover and gave my hair the most casual of cuts. He finished in ten minutes, during which the small salon experienced a power failure.Stunning supermarketAfter Armani, I was taken to a newly-opened shopping mall which is only 500 meters from our new apartment. There was a supermarket in the basement.When I went to store my bag, I found the lockers were controlled by facial-recognition locks. Shoppers opened the locker simply by having their faces scanned. This technology was also used during payment, as I later found out. In previous years, I have written news stories about the application of facial recognition in China. It was the first time that I saw this technology being used here in this way.The inside of the supermarket was also a sight to behold.Peppa Pig was on everything - cookies, candies, toys - and piled everywhere to mark the upcoming Year of the Pig.Taedonggang Beer from North Korea and Wusu beer from China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region were displayed besides each other, under the mermaid-shaped bottles of Georgia wine.A huge Charizard doll guarded a mountain of toilet paper.Crowds squeezed past each other, struggling to add more to their holiday food stocks.It was a scene that I had never expected to see in my fifth-tier county hometown. All I could do was take out my phone and share this unique experience with my city peers.Change for the BetterBy Li Lei in Xi'anI would say that what my hometown village is undergoing now would have been the stuff of fiction 15 years ago.As my father drove me back to my village in Gaoling district, Xi'an, Northwestern China's Shaanxi Province, I tried to recall what life was like there before I left.UnrecognizableAs I remember, the road was muddy and I slipped on it many times on rainy days on my way to school. Now the road is smooth and covered with concrete. Street lamps stand on both sides, making the dark village night as bright as day.A network of highways has sprung up around the village, making transportation more convenient, and I could barely recognize the place when my father drove me home from the high-speed railway station.It only takes half an hour from the village to the Xi'an North Railway station and the airport.A sight-seeing highway was also built along the Weihe River, giving people a better view of the junction between the Jinghe and the Weihe rivers.The village itself is now totally different in appearance. Shabby cottages have been replaced by two-story buildings, and various cars are parked in front of the houses.One neighbor who owns a Mercedes Benz and Range Rover said he made a fortune from his construction material business, and is now very content because he can give his family a better life.After talking with neighbors, I was told that their prosperous lives are the result of beneficial policies that compensate farmers generously for planting crops."Before, the only income for our family was just 6,000 yuan ($870) from crops. Now the number has increased greatly since the government covers most of the costs of growing crops, such as fertilizers and irrigation," one neighbor said.Living smartOn the second day of the Spring Festival holidays, when I expressed surprise to hear that the air conditioner was on after we had been out the whole day, my father smiled and told me that he had turned it on with an app on his phone on our way back. He said he and my mother are now living a "smart life" since many appliances can be controlled with a smart phone.He told me with pride that the government gave him 3,000 yuan ($435) in compensation for using clean energy, which covers half of the air conditioner costs.My father said he is planning an overseas trip with my mother and their friends this year. Many villagers, especially the older ones, have taken to spending their Spring Festival overseas in recent years. A group of neighbors decided to apply for passports and visas for a trip to Thailand after they saw photos of beautiful scenery posted on WeChat by other villagers who had visited the country.On the street, one neighbor was sharing taffy candies she had brought from Vietnam with her friends while telling them funny stories that had happened on her trip."Because I've never been to a big city and never traveled or even seen a plane, I want to experience the life that I saw in the movies, now that I have the opportunity and money," said a 65-year-old neighbor.A local travel agency has seized on the opportunity and customized a series of overseas travel routes for clients from rural areas. "The tourism market in rural areas has a lot of potential, since family incomes here have seen a rise and the villagers are becoming more open-minded in their consumption habits," said a manager of the travel agency surnamed Jin."They are more likely to try new things and seek entertainment, so overseas travel is fairly attractive to them," Jin added.The village is evolving into a more modernized one, while the villagers are also becoming more open to the new world.This year, my 70-year-old grandpa got his own smart phone and WeChat account. "Now I can video call you when I miss you," he said with a beaming smile.
Newspaper headline: Hometown Journals Backgrounder: the AIIB explainedImpact of anti-corruption campaignBig changes in China's top military brass China eyes building next-generation fighter jets by 2035China 'likely' to see steady increase in 2019 defense budgetChinese students slam union candidate over separatist posts Chinese runner to finish pole-to-pole trekLA teachers strike shows failure of America's public school system2019 Rose Parade held in Pasadena How To Say Love To A Chinese Girl

A Bite of China, A Bite of Chinese

第五十四课 女性道德教育

第四十九课 裸体写真

广州女大学生设计丁字裤避孕套获风投青睐