○ Global Times reporters experienced violent riots in Hong Kong after a peaceful demonstration on Sunday.○ Online and offline coordination among opposition groups, and supplies such as helmets, goggles, umbrellas and scissors, unveiled how the riot was well-plotted and fully organized.○ Police resorted to using limited force to disperse radicals in line with local laws in HK.


Radical protesters in Hong Kong block a road and assault police on Sunday. Their behavior was widely condemned. Photo: Fan Lingzhi/GTUsing the peaceful rally as a front, radical protesters in Hong Kong were well prepared to turn the "peaceful" protest into a riot on Sunday. The Global Times reporter saw different "supply-distribution spots" along the routes for protests on Sunday, where participants sent out necessities such as drinks, helmets, masks, and supplies to the so-called "bravest protesters.". Before the rally, protesters purchased a large amount of alpenstocks, as their steel frame is more solid than an umbrella, which can be easily carried and pass police checks. Faced with growing security concerns, the US consulate general in Hong Kong and Macao also issued a warning on Friday, asking people to avoid the rally route, such as Victoria Park and Causeway Bay, and urging people to stay low profile. The Global Times reporters found out on Sunday that slogans such as "Final Battle" and "Blood Battle" were not just slogans, as peaceful rallies turn into violence at night. As the sun went down, the violence began, which was also the opposition groups' strategy to escalate social tensions. The rally route on Sunday permitted by the police was from Victoria Park at Causeway Bay to the Southern Playground at Wan Chai, but many protesters didn't stop at Southern Playground; they continued marching to the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government at Sai Ying Pun around 4 pm. Meanwhile, some protesters shared radical messages online to ignite more radical acts targeting the liaison office. 

Radical protesters in Hong Kong block a road and assault police on Sunday. Their behavior was widely condemned. Photo: Fan Lingzhi/GTAround 7 pm, a group of protesters arrived at the liaison office and flashed laser lights at the office employees, threw eggs, defaced the national emblem, and sprayed graffiti on the wall. At the office entrance at Des Voeux Road Central, protesters blocked the roads with steel fences, and a group of radical protesters in masks, holding long umbrellas, assembled at the police office across the street. At that moment, the peaceful rally officially ended, and later turned into a well-plotted attack. Protesters chased passengers who were not in black shirts, and also threatened journalists who took photos of the damage they were creating.At the Des Voeux Road West police station near the liaison office, radicals blocked three exits with an iron fence, and also blocked the station gate for police vehicles with their umbrellas.At the moment the damages were made, some protesters pulled out necessities hidden on street corners and distributed them to the crowd, preparing for the police who could soon come to clear the area.This showed that turning the peaceful rally into a riot was not improvised, as the radicals had clear targets. After they arrived at the liaison office, the first thing they did was to damage the surveillance camera by spray-painting it or covering it with umbrellas. Online and offline protesters worked closely together. Online radicals first sent out messages on social network apps such as Telegram and LIHKG so their on-site counterparts could rush into the liaison office and police bureau at the same time. When the police came to clear the place, some radical protesters covered their arms with tape to prevent pepper spray from burning their arms. And the Global Times reporters saw some protesters in black shirts and masks with goggles shouting and monitoring the process.  In some group chats on Telegram, the Global Times reporter saw protesters coordinating the action. "Frontline needs more scissors!" "No guard now at the liaison office." "Please fill up supplies." Those messages also provided updates of the police deployments. After damaging facilities and defacing the national emblem at the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in Hong Kong, most protesters moved to Sheung Wan, a central business district of the city, and turned the place into a "war zone" armed with iron sticks, and tore down huge signs.  After a brief standoff with the police, the latter launched tear gas to disperse the protesters.   The police used very limited force to disperse them. However, the protesters not only did things to insult the country and damage public facilities, but also used journalists as human shields to attack the police.When the police tried to push forward and warned the rioters to leave, the protesters threw bricks and bags filled with oil paint at the police, and several protesters hid behind journalists to attack police at close range, and the police could not return fire. Some protesters also threw tear gas canisters back at police, with one of them accidentally thrown at journalists.Others also stood between the more radical crowd and the police to hinder law enforcement and clearance operations. They urged the police to "calm down" and tried to persuade the police not to fire tear gas, but very few of them used the same tone to persuade the more radical crowd to stay back and leave. The radical protesters threw bricks and paint bags at the police and journalists. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Violent protestors damage Hong Kong, their own futures Chinese netizens angered by Pocari Sweat's fence-sitting on Hong Kong   Hong Kong's 'silent majority' won't stay silent forever Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Earthquake inspectionSummer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money back