Zhang Zhengbo, 49, dubbed the Chinese "Breaking Bad," was resentenced from life imprisonment to 15 years in prison on June 25 for dealing drugs as a loophole was found in China's legal system, according to the Beijing News. Zhang, a former associate professor at Huazhong University of Science and Technology, was arrested on June 17, 2015, for developing, producing and selling drugs. The No.4 and No.20 drugs produced by Zhang and his team were controlled narcotic psychotropic drugs in China, also known as "third-generation drugs." Zhu Mingyong, Zhang's lawyer, said that a seminar organized by the Chinese University of Political Science and Law on August 2017 pointed out that there is a loophole in the existing regulations on third generation drugs, according to the report. The Chinese judicial system has been processing third generation drug-related cases based on two lists made by the Ministry of Public Security and the National Health and Family Planning Commission, alongside other departments. However, Zhang's attorney believes that the lists are ministry-level regulations instead of national regulations that have been defined by article 96 of the Criminal Law. "The question is whether the controlled drugs in the two lists are equal to the drugs controlled by Criminal Law," said Zhu. "Legal loopholes need to be supplemented by law. If there is no clear statement in the law, there is no way to convict it," Jia Ruiguo of Beijing Fangli Law Firm told the Global Times on Tuesday. Ouyang Aihui, an associate professor at the University of South China, told the Global Times that Zhang's case reflects shortcomings in China's drug control legislation. Many Western countries have specific laws to avoid such issues, Ouyang added. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China to include all fentanyl-related substances into control list since May 1 Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Earthquake inspectionSummer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money back