Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky (Second from right) reacts in front of a screen displaying exit poll results at his Servant of the People party election headquarters in Kiev on Sunday, following a day of polling in the country's parliamentary election. Photo: VCG
Ukraine's comedian-turned-president Volodymyr Zelensky is set to control an absolute majority in parliament, ushering in a generational shift in the ex-Soviet country's political arena.The 41-year-old became Ukraine's youngest ever post-Soviet leader when he took office two months ago and has promised to stamp out corruption. His newly created Servant of the People party - named after a sitcom in which he played a president - took around 42 percent of the weekend vote, with 50 percent of votes counted. Media projections on Monday showed this puts the party on track to pick up more than half of the parliament's 450 seats, the best showing by any party in Ukraine's post-1991 history. The result is the culmination of a stunning turnaround in Ukrainian politics and will bring a host of newcomers into parliament and government. One of the many young and politically inexperienced future lawmakers that will enter parliament is Zhan Beleniuk, a 28-year-old Olympic wrestler with Rwandan roots. Four other parties - including one openly supported by the Kremlin - passed the 5 percent threshold to enter the assembly, the results showed.At 49.8 percent, the turnout was the lowest of any election in Ukraine's post-independence history.It was initially thought Zelensky would have to form a coalition. The president had indicated a preference for another new political force, the Golos (Voice) party of rock star Svyatoslav Vakarchuk. The singer's party, also packed with young professionals like Zelensky's, made it to parliament with 6 percent of the vote, according to the latest results. Servant of the People party chief Dmitry Razumkov said Monday that the party was "open for dialogue" with forces that share a similar "basic vision for our country."  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Ukraine president Zelensky’s party tipped to win parliament vote Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Earthquake inspectionSummer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money back