Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro gestures at members of the Bolivarian Militia during a military parade to commemorate the 17th anniversary of a failed 2002 coup d'état against late leader Hugo Chavez in Venezuelan capital Caracas on Saturday. Photo: AFP
Both China and Mexico believe the international community should not directly interfere in Venezuela's internal affairs and should oppose unilateral sanctions and military interference in the country, China's State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi told media on Tuesday. 

Wang made the remarks at a press conference with Mexican Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard in Beijing. Wang said that both China and Mexico agree that Venezuela's issue is the country's domestic affairs which should be addressed through dialogue and consultation by Venezuelan people. 
"The international community should firmly uphold the principles of the UN Charter and the basic norms of international relations," Wang said. 
Wang noted that both China and Mexico agree that Venezuela has the wisdom to protect its stability, national dignity and people's unity. The ruling and opposition parties in Venezuela should be encouraged to solve their differences in a peaceful manner under the framework of the country's Constitution. 
As an important country of the Montevideo Mechanism, Mexico has a constructive role to play in creating a good external environment to help solve Venezuela's problem, and China appreciates Mexico's position.
China is willing to work with Mexico and the international community to promote dialogue and believes Venezuela will restore peace and stability. 
Ebrard said Mexico is firmly opposed to any external interference in Venezuela's affairs and supports the Venezuelan people in determining their country's future via peaceful dialogue.      
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Venezuela says it thwarted ‘violent plots’ against govt Cuban president highlights unity between Cuba, Venezuela Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Many frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5GChinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US Census