Firefighters put out a brush fire in Chino Hills, Los Angeles, the United States, July 28, 2019. A 154-acre (62.3-hectare) brush fire racing up from a rugged area in Chino Hills city in the U.S. state of California has devoured a large house and spread alarmingly close to others on Sunday afternoon. (Photo by Qian Weizhong/Xinhua) 

Firefighters prepare to put out a fire in Chino Hills, Los Angeles, the United States, July 28, 2019. A 154-acre (62.3-hectare) brush fire racing up from a rugged area in Chino Hills city in the U.S. state of California has devoured a large house and spread alarmingly close to others on Sunday afternoon. (Photo by Qian Weizhong/Xinhua) 



Firefighters put out a brush fire in Chino Hills, Los Angeles, the United States, July 28, 2019. A 154-acre (62.3-hectare) brush fire racing up from a rugged area in Chino Hills city in the U.S. state of California has devoured a large house and spread alarmingly close to others on Sunday afternoon. (Photo by Qian Weizhong/Xinhua) 



Residents are blocked from the fire area in Chino Hills, Los Angeles, the United States, July 28, 2019. A 154-acre (62.3-hectare) brush fire racing up from a rugged area in Chino Hills city in the U.S. state of California has devoured a large house and spread alarmingly close to others on Sunday afternoon. (Photo by Qian Weizhong/Xinhua) 



A firefighter sprays water to put out a fire in Chino Hills, Los Angeles, the United States, July 28, 2019. A 154-acre (62.3-hectare) brush fire racing up from a rugged area in Chino Hills city in the U.S. state of California has devoured a large house and spread alarmingly close to others on Sunday afternoon. (Photo by Qian Weizhong/Xinhua) 



A firefighter puts out a brush fire in Chino Hills, Los Angeles, the United States, July 28, 2019. A 154-acre (62.3-hectare) brush fire racing up from a rugged area in Chino Hills city in the U.S. state of California has devoured a large house and spread alarmingly close to others on Sunday afternoon. (Photo by Qian Weizhong/Xinhua) 



Firefighters put out a fire in Chino Hills, Los Angeles, the United States, July 28, 2019. A 154-acre (62.3-hectare) brush fire racing up from a rugged area in Chino Hills city in the U.S. state of California has devoured a large house and spread alarmingly close to others on Sunday afternoon. (Photo by Qian Weizhong/Xinhua)  A 154-acre (62.3-hectare) brush fire racing up from a rugged area in Chino Hills city in the US state of California has devoured a large house and spread alarmingly close to others on Sunday afternoon. The home on Miramonte Court appeared to be destroyed. Firefighters used ladders to spray directly into the residence from the caved-in roof, according to local media reports. The fire began near Falling Star Lane and Chino Hills Parkway. At shortly after 2 p.m. local time (2100 GMT), Chino Valley Fire reported it reached 50 acres (20.23 hectares). The blaze, dubbed the "Star Fire," had reached 154 acres by 9:30 p.m. local time (0430 GMT Monday), with 65 percent containment. Forward progress was halted, said Massiel De Guevara, spokeswoman for the Chino Valley Fire District. De Guevara said firefighters with the Chino Valley Fire District and Cal Fire's San Bernardino County Unit would likely be working on putting out the fire through the night. There were no neighborhood evacuations and no injuries, she said. The cause of the fire was under investigation. Some local roads were closed, though Chino Hills Parkway had reopened by about 10:30 p.m. local time (0530 GMT Monday). 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  State of emergency declared in California to battle fast moving brush fire Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash