Anita Kiki Gebe, deputy joint special representative of the United Nations-African Union Mission in Darfur (UNAMID), awards UN peace medal to a soldier of the 2nd China Medium Utility Helicopter Unit (CMUHU02) in El-Fashir, Sudan, July 17, 2019. The 140 officers and soldiers of the 2nd China Medium Utility Helicopter Unit (CMUHU02), a peacekeeping contingent to Sudan's Darfur, were awarded UN peace medals. (Xinhua) 

Officers and soldiers of the 2nd China Medium Utility Helicopter Unit (CMUHU02) march during an award ceremony in El-Fashir, Sudan, July 17, 2019. The 140 officers and soldiers of the 2nd China Medium Utility Helicopter Unit (CMUHU02), a peacekeeping contingent to Sudan's Darfur, were awarded UN peace medals. (Xinhua)  The 140 officers and soldiers of the 2nd China Medium Utility Helicopter Unit (CMUHU02), a peacekeeping contingent to Sudan's Darfur, were awarded UN peace medals. At the award ceremony on Wednesday, Anita Kiki Gebe, deputy joint special representative of the United Nations-African Union Mission in Darfur (UNAMID), spoke highly of the devotion of the Chinese helicopter unit to the peace and stability of Sudan. "The second Chinese peacekeeping helicopter unit to Darfur demonstrated their outstanding professionalism and excellent service in their mandate," said Gebe, also one of the presenters of the UN award. Their "outstanding work has enhanced the friendship between China and Sudan and the world nations," she added. Equipped with four Mi-17 helicopters, the CMUHU02 in UNAMID is mainly tasked with 24-hour air patrol, battleground reconnaissance, personnel movement, casualty evacuation and material transportation. So far, the Chinese helicopter contingent to Darfur has carried out 636 sorties, rescued more than 280 people and delivered 3,800 passengers, 220 tons of cargo, 16.6 tons of dangerous goods such as weapons and ammunition. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China's 2nd peacekeeping helicopter unit in Sudan's Darfur finish equipment inspection China's first peacekeeping helicopter unit arrives in Darfur Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Earthquake inspectionSummer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money back