Pietra Santa by Matteo Basile Photo: Xu Liuliu/GT China and Italy have a long tradition of cultural communication. The ongoing exhibition of artists from both countries at Beijing's Hongkun Museum of Fine Art continues this international dialogue. The Mirror: Matteo Basile and Shi Liang exhibition features the works of the two artists, from paintings to installation works. According to exhibition curator Tian Kai, historically speaking, this dialogue between China and Italy began in the 16th century, when Jesuits went to China as missionaries. Profoundly influenced by the Renaissance, they also brought Italian geography, astronomy, mathematics, art and other modern scientific knowledge to China. In order to get support from the Vatican for Chinese missionaries, Italian missionaries  also introduced ancient Chinese culture, history and more to Italy. China became an object of emulation in the 17th century and a large number of Chinese artifacts were shipped to the West, which set off the "China Craze" in Europe in the 18th century. From classicism to realism, from the integration of art and technology to the exploration of the transcendental world of art, artists from the two countries share similar experiences and ideas but express themselves in different ways. One of the most influential contemporary Italian artists in the 21 century and winner of the 2009 Venice Biennale Award, Basile presents a beautiful world of surreal images combined with technology in his art. Chinese artist Shi Liang creates enlightening works using a variety of new materials to inspire people to think about the human condition. Behind his creative pursuits is a clear understanding of the absurdity and awkwardness of reality as well as an atmosphere full of metaphor and irony like his Never Walked out of Myth.Their works, like a mirror, reflect the relationship between drama and reality, senses and the mind, moment and eternity, past and future. They embody a completely clear and infinite narrative process, which consists of coexistence and epiphany, according to the introduction to the exhibition, which is set to run until September 2.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Chinese photographer holds photo exhibition on giant panda in Thailand "Hubei Day" event held at Beijing International Horticultural Exhibition Exhibition reveals glory of road in Tang Dynasty Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Many frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5GChinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US Census