Ji Hengshan, a Beijing-based kissing scene marker, trains artificial intelligence systems to recognize kissing scenes on August 3, 2018. Photo: ICA recent report on China's emerging occupations in the services industry this year shows that not only has a new batch of jobs been created, but new digital-oriented professions are also defining the industry.The report was jointly released this month by Meituan Dianping, a Chinese e-commerce platform for a host of services, and Zhilian Zhaopin, one of China's top job-hunting websites. It encompasses professions such as home party operator, escape room designer, pet photographer, scalp therapist, sundry sorter, Counter-Strike coach, bartender and fitness instructor.According to the report, most professionals working in these jobs are highly educated, in addition to earning high income, and seeking a work-life balance. Almost 70 percent have a degree higher than junior college, and a quarter of them have salaries higher than 10,000 yuan ($1,470). They are described as free, confident, self-incentivized, and having pride in their work.

Sun Xuli teaches students programming at Coding March, a teenager programming training agency in Pudong, Shanghai. Photo: Courtesy of Coding MarchYang Kesi, 29, founded a programming school in Shanghai for teenagers in 2016, after selling an overseas study agency startup. "I decided to establish my own programming school as I was not satisfied with existing training services in Shanghai," Yang told the Global Times. In the past three years, he has seen that more attention is paid to programming education by parents and students. "I have changed my students' lives by teaching them programming and helping them receive offers from world-famous universities like Columbia and Stanford," Yang told the Global Times. "I think I have created a new section of education," Yang said. 'Slash youth'Those born between 1990 and 2000 make up the bulk of these new professions. According to the report, generations born after the 1980s and 1990s occupy more than 90 percent of this job market. Half were born after the 1990s, and over 22 percent were born after 1995.As opposed to their parents, younger generations tend to be open to a wider range of professions such as online restaurant designer, cat stroker, or other jobs outside of traditional occupations."Slash youth" is a term describing young people who have more than one area of expertise, a common trait among recent job holders. Nearly 20 percent of new job holders have one or more part-time jobs.The report also shows over 20 percent of new business entrepreneurs have worked for other companies, and 9 percent of them have worked for state-owned enterprises and government agencies.Tu Chao, 31, owner of a Chengdu-based escape room design company, quit his job at a state-owned mining enterprise to start his own business with a colleague from the same workplace. 

An escape room designed by Tu Chao in Chengdu in China's Sichuan Province Photo: Courtesy of Tu Chao"When I introduced my business to ten friends, none of them had heard of it before. My cousin mocked me and said that it might be better to sell noodles," he recalled. Now his company is producing its own original storylines and differentiating its designs, some of which are styled after movies."Some guests were moved to tears," Tu said. In their escape rooms, they experienced Chinese traditional cultures. His business has become more successful as a result. The average customer flow for the rooms that Tu's company is running is about 10,000 people per month. Tu aims to earn more than 10 million yuan this year.  With the development of the economy, consumers are looking for pleasure through spiritual experiences, Tu said. Promising industryLai Youwei, head of Meituan Research Institute, Meituan Dianping, told the Global Times that this wave of new professions has resulted from vigorous development of the services industry as consumer demand grows more personalized. The top five reasons for the growth of these new jobs include the fast development of promising industries, passion, opportunities to work with different people, the appeal of trying new things, and flexible working hours, Lai analyzed. The practitioners of these jobs find it important to be professional. Over 60 percent of the people surveyed believe that expertise and outstanding techniques will lead to success. Meanwhile, practitioners also value customers' feedback. Over 35 percent of surveyed professionals said that they keep track of the comments on platforms like Meituan Dianping. New occupations created in this new economy appear to have three main characteristics. They are dynamic, heavily influenced by external factors, and lack sustainability. The driving force of synergy development across different sectors dominates this job market. This unique professional landscape offers a new generation in the workforce with opportunities to combine their interests and personalities, Meng Qingwei, vice chairman of China Talent Research Institute, told the Global Times. These emerging jobs have reached a certain scale and have developed into stable and independent occupations, Zhang Bingzi, research director with the Development Research Center of the State Council, said in an interview with Beijing-based China Economic Times newspaper."When there is vitality in industries, new careers will be unleashed, reflecting the momentum and innovation in new business models for economic growth," Zhang said. Preparation needed According to Meng, three factors are critical in these new emerging professions: an understanding of the connections between majors and careers in the era of artificial intelligence, a thorough comprehension of one's own potential, and professionalism and flexibility. About 71 percent of new occupation practitioners have received vocational training. High quality and targeted vocational training is believed to be an important way to increase income, the report shows."We can see that people who are taking new occupations are gaining more control, and this might be attributed to their online hours, with clear plans [to their career path]. Most of the young entrants witness the fast growth in the Chinese economy; they are more confident to choose the jobs they love," Lai concluded. The Meituan Dianping report called for acknowledgement of the services industry and a more flexible job market."[Society] needs to push forward the convergence of digital technology and the services industry while developing a bigger talent pool," the report said.Newspaper headline: Creative jobs 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China’s services industry continues expansion, but faces rising pressure Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Summer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5G