Residents are seen at a public market in the government-controlled city of Dhalea, Yemen, July 1, 2019. For over five years, Yemen experienced a prolonged conflict pitting the country's government forces backed by a Saudi-led coalition against the Houthi rebels allied with Iran. The armed confrontations are still ongoing and expanding further to new areas, forcing thousands of helpless Yemeni people to cope with most difficult living conditions caused by the deadly years-long conflict. (Photo: Xinhua) 

A child sells agricultural products at a public market in the government-controlled souther province of Dhalea city, Yemen, July 1, 2019. For over five years, Yemen experienced a prolonged conflict pitting the country's government forces backed by a Saudi-led coalition against the Houthi rebels allied with Iran. The armed confrontations are still ongoing and expanding further to new areas, forcing thousands of helpless Yemeni people to cope with most difficult living conditions caused by the deadly years-long conflict. (Photo: Xinhua) 

An old man sells vegetables at a public market in the government-controlled southern city of Dhalea, Yemen, July 1, 2019. For over five years, Yemen experienced a prolonged conflict pitting the country's government forces backed by a Saudi-led coalition against the Houthi rebels allied with Iran. The armed confrontations are still ongoing and expanding further to new areas, forcing thousands of helpless Yemeni people to cope with most difficult living conditions caused by the deadly years-long conflict. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Vendors are seen at a public market in the government-controlled city of Dhalea, Yemen, July 1, 2019. For over five years, Yemen experienced a prolonged conflict pitting the country's government forces backed by a Saudi-led coalition against the Houthi rebels allied with Iran. The armed confrontations are still ongoing and expanding further to new areas, forcing thousands of helpless Yemeni people to cope with most difficult living conditions caused by the deadly years-long conflict. (Photo: Xinhua) 


A child waits for customers at his vegetable store in the government-controlled southern city of Dhalea, Yemen, July 1, 2019. For over five years, Yemen experienced a prolonged conflict pitting the country's government forces backed by a Saudi-led coalition against the Houthi rebels allied with Iran. The armed confrontations are still ongoing and expanding further to new areas, forcing thousands of helpless Yemeni people to cope with most difficult living conditions caused by the deadly years-long conflict. (Photo: Xinhua)  


Photo taken on July 1, 2019 shows a general view of the government-controlled southern Dhalea city, Yemen. For over five years, Yemen experienced a prolonged conflict pitting the country's government forces backed by a Saudi-led coalition against the Houthi rebels allied with Iran. The armed confrontations are still ongoing and expanding further to new areas, forcing thousands of helpless Yemeni people to cope with most difficult living conditions caused by the deadly years-long conflict. (Photo: Xinhua)  

A government forces tank is seen at a military position in the city of Dhalea, Yemen, July 1, 2019. For over five years, Yemen experienced a prolonged conflict pitting the country's government forces backed by a Saudi-led coalition against the Houthi rebels allied with Iran. The armed confrontations are still ongoing and expanding further to new areas, forcing thousands of helpless Yemeni people to cope with most difficult living conditions caused by the deadly years-long conflict. (Photo: Xinhua)  

A partially destroyed tank is seen at a pro-government military position in the city of Dhalea, Yemen, July 1, 2019. For over five years, Yemen experienced a prolonged conflict pitting the country's government forces backed by a Saudi-led coalition against the Houthi rebels allied with Iran. The armed confrontations are still ongoing and expanding further to new areas, forcing thousands of helpless Yemeni people to cope with most difficult living conditions caused by the deadly years-long conflict. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Photo taken on July 1, 2019 shows a general view of the government-controlled southern Dhalea city, Yemen. For over five years, Yemen experienced a prolonged conflict pitting the country's government forces backed by a Saudi-led coalition against the Houthi rebels allied with Iran. The armed confrontations are still ongoing and expanding further to new areas, forcing thousands of helpless Yemeni people to cope with most difficult living conditions caused by the deadly years-long conflict. (Photo: Xinhua)    
        RELATED ARTICLES:  5 million Yemenis lose jobs amid years of war: minister Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Many frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5GChinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US Census