Chinese Vice Premier Liu He (8th R), also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chief of the Chinese side of the China-U.S. comprehensive economic dialogue, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer (8th L) and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin (7th L) hold the 12th round of China-U.S. high-level economic and trade consultations in east China's Shanghai from July 30 to 31, 2019. (Xinhua/Liu Bin) Chinese Vice Premier Liu He, US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin held the 12th round of China-US high-level economic and trade consultations in Shanghai from Tuesday to Wednesday. Liu is also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chief of the Chinese side of the China-US comprehensive economic dialogue. In line with the important consensus reached by the two heads of state in Osaka, the two sides conducted candid, efficient, constructive and in-depth exchanges on major issues of common concern in the economic and trade field. The two sides also discussed the increased purchase of US agricultural products by China according to its own domestic needs and favorable conditions to be offered by the US side for the purchase. Minister of Commerce Zhong Shan, Governor of the People's Bank of China Yi Gang, Vice Minister in Charge of the National Development and Reform Commission Ning Jizhe, Deputy Director of the Office of the Central Commission for Financial and Economic Affairs and Vice Finance Minister Liao Min, Vice Foreign Minister Zheng Zeguang, Vice Minister of Industry and Information Technology Wang Zhijun, Deputy Director of the Office of the Central Agricultural Work Leading Group and Vice Minister of Agriculture and Rural Affairs Han Jun, and Vice Minister of Commerce and Deputy China International Trade Representative Wang Shouwen joined the consultations. The two sides will hold the next round of high-level economic and trade consultations in the United States in September.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Vietnam can hardly be ‘winner’ of trade war China rebuilds farming supply chain amid trade war Bearing brunt of trade war, Singapore firms reduce jobs Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash