Participants aged 4 to 12 pose for a photo at Beijing International Fashion Sports Park on Saturday. 

Skaters aged 4 to 12 compete against each other during the day at the Beijing International Fashion Sports Park on Saturday. 

A skater plays trick during the day at the park.

Some participants put their skateboard aside and watch the competitions. Photos: Li Hao and Li Jieyi/GTSlide, jump, spin… the cool-looking skills do not belong to adult skaters alone. About 600 professionals, aficionados and audience members gathered on Saturday at Beijing International Fashion Sports Park, a skate park in Daxing district for skateboarding - an extreme sport viewed by many as perilous.Organized by Burning Ice, a local skateboard brand, the skaters practiced and competed against each other, making it a skating party for skaters in Beijing. The youngest participant was 4 years old.First introduced to China in the 1980s, skateboarding is a sport that has often been associated with street culture, and has attracted an increasing number of young followers in China in recent years. "I really love skateboarding. It's cool," said Wang Miaoyu, a 7-year-old girl who began to skateboard a year ago. She insisted on attending the event even though her final exams before the 2019 summer vacation are right around the corner. The children have confidence to balance their hobby and study. "I finished six pages of math exercises this morning so that I could participate in today's event," she said.Chinese parents are known for paying most attention to their children's study habits and their wellbeing, rather than supporting a hobby such as skateboarding. "There are many measures you can take to protect your children from being injured, and physical health is also important for youngsters," said Wang's 48-year-old father. For these parents and their children, skateboarding is not just a sport that originated from abroad or a symbol of street culture, but also a way to cultivate a strong character and an interest. Skateboarding is one of the five newly-introduced events in the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. "That means it can be known by more people, although it's still a lesser-known sport in China," said 14-year-old Bai Yushi who began to skateboard a year ago. When the kids were asked if they will give up skateboarding, all the kids' answered, "I won't quit as long as I can skate." 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Tibetan portrait: promote participation in skateboarding The real Dogtown? Skateboarding bulldogs shred up East China city Park Skateboarding World Championships 2018 ends Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Many frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5GChinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US Census