Members of the new Greek parliament are sworn in at the Hellenic Parliament in Athens, Greece, on July 17, 2019. The 300 deputies of the 18th session of the Greek Parliament, elected from the July 7 general elections, was sworn in on Wednesday. (Photo: Xinhua) The 300 deputies of the 18th session of the Greek Parliament, elected from the July 7 general elections, was sworn in on Wednesday.New Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis wished "strength to all" during the ceremony broadcast on national television ERT.Six parties are represented in the new parliament: conservative New Democracy with 158 seats, main opposition Radical Left SYRIZA-Progressive Alliance with 86, center-Left Movement of Change (KINAL) with 22, Communist Party of Greece (KKE) with 15, right-wing Greek Solution with 10 seats, and finally leftist MeRA25 with 9 seats.The new parliament has a total of 61 women from all six parties and 112 new MPs elected to the parliament for the first time, according to the official data released by the parliament.The percentage of women is slightly up to 20.6 percent, compared to the 18.3 percent during the previous Parliament, an increase of seven more femaleMPs.All members of Parliament received a booklet with the Rules of the body and the country's Constitution so that especially the new entrants can learn the way of function.On July 20, the new Greek prime minister will speak at the Parliament.The whole process will last for three days and it will close with speeches by political leaders and a vote of confidence to the new government. 

Members of the new Greek parliament are sworn in at the Hellenic Parliament in Athens, Greece, on July 17, 2019. The 300 deputies of the 18th session of the Greek Parliament, elected from the July 7 general elections, was sworn in on Wednesday. (Photo: Xinhua)   


Members of the new Greek parliament are sworn in at the Hellenic Parliament in Athens, Greece, on July 17, 2019. The 300 deputies of the 18th session of the Greek Parliament, elected from the July 7 general elections, was sworn in on Wednesday. (Photo: Xinhua)   

Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis attends the swearing-in ceremony of the new parliament at the Hellenic Parliament in Athens, Greece, on July 17, 2019. The 300 deputies of the 18th session of the Greek Parliament, elected from the July 7 general elections, was sworn in on Wednesday. (Photo: Xinhua)   

Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis (L) talks with a member of the parliament at the plenum of the Hellenic Parliament in Athens, Greece, on July 17, 2019. The 300 deputies of the 18th session of the Greek Parliament, elected from the July 7 general elections, was sworn in on Wednesday. (Photo: Xinhua)   

Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis (C) greets members of the parliament at the plenum of the Hellenic Parliament in Athens, Greece, on July 17, 2019. The 300 deputies of the 18th session of the Greek Parliament, elected from the July 7 general elections, was sworn in on Wednesday. (Photo: Xinhua)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Greek PM acknowledges defeat in general elections Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Summer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5G