Local police block part of the Frankfurt main station in Frankfurt, Germany, July 29, 2019. An 8-year-old boy was killed by a moving train after he and his mother were allegedly pushed by a man onto the tracks Monday morning at the Frankfurt main station. The boy's mother was barely able to save herself and was taken to the hospital, the German media BILD quoted local police as saying. The suspect was arrested after being caught in the station. (Photo: Xinhua) 

Local police investigate at the Frankfurt main station in Frankfurt, Germany, July 29, 2019. An 8-year-old boy was killed by a moving train after he and his mother were allegedly pushed by a man onto the tracks Monday morning at the Frankfurt main station. The boy's mother was barely able to save herself and was taken to the hospital, the German media BILD quoted local police as saying. The suspect was arrested after being caught in the station. (Xinhua/Shen Zhonghao) An 8-year-old boy was killed by a moving train after he and his mother were allegedly pushed by a man onto the tracks Monday morning at the Frankfurt main station.The boy's mother was barely able to save herself and was taken to the hospital, the German media BILD quoted local police as saying.The suspect was arrested after being caught in the station.Six of the 24 tracks at the Frankfurt station were temporarily closed, causing delays of dozens of trains.According to the police, there appeared to be no connection between the 40-year-old suspect and the victims. The suspect tried to push another person onto the track and was unsuccessful.His motives and background are under investigation, a police spokesperson has said.German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer has canceled his vacation for a crisis meeting with security authorities.A 34-year-old woman was earlier this month pushed in front of an oncoming train and died at a station in the North Rhine-Westphalian town of Voerde. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Trade fair Ambiente kicks off in Frankfurt, Germany Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash