A hotel of OYO. Photo: VCGTravelers may no longer have to worry about the sanitary conditions of their hotel room in Wuhan, Central China's Hubei Province, as the city's first green laundry base has gone into operation, which places a chip and QR code in the bedding and towels to allow hotel guests to know when the items were last washed.The laundry base located in Wuhan's Xinzhou district has started to place chips, which are extremely thin and slightly smaller than a cigarette lighter, in every towel and bed sheet, which also will have a QR code soon, the Xinhua News Agency reported on Sunday. The chips apparently automatically collect the laundry details of each item which hotel guests can access with a scan of the QR code. The report has become a top10 hit on China's Twitter-like Weibo, with many Chinese net users saying the system should be implemented across the country.An internet poll by the National Business Daily showed that 318,000 of the 438,000 respondents support Wuhan's laundry info system being implemented nation wide. Some 108,000 of the participants were more worried about hidden cameras in their rooms, and 11,000 said they bring their own bedclothes. "I think that makes the changing and washing of hotel's bedclothes transparent and tourists can enjoy a more comfortable stay," said a Weibo user.  Some net users worried the information provided by the QR could be faked.  In September 2017, the Beijing Tourism Association said that it takes the quality of service at its member hotels very seriously and it accused five luxury hotels, JM Marriott, Shangri La Hotel, Hilton, Intercontinental, and W Beijing, of not changing bed sheets or cleaning toilets ahead of new guest arrivals.  The statement came after a video showing employees from Better Choice, Better Life, an independent assessment organization, posing as guests and checking five luxury Beijing hotels drew massive attention. They found the hotels failed to change and clean bedding and toiletries before the arrival of new guests.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Five luxury hotels in Beijing accused of unsanitary practices Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Many frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5GChinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US Census