Iran will continue to abandon more of its commitments pertaining to the 2015 landmark nuclear deal if the remaining parties to the accord fail to help Iran reap its economic interests, an Iranian deputy foreign minister said Sunday. The remarks by Abbas Araqchi came just after an extraordinary meeting of the remaining signatories to the Iranian nuclear deal, namely Britain, France, Germany, China, Russia, in Vienna that tried again to find a way of saving the accord amid mounting tensions between Tehran and Washington. "Iran will continue to cut its commitments under the nuclear deal if the Europeans fail to honor Iran's legitimate rights," Araqchi, who also represents Iran in the nuclear-related negotiations, was quoted as saying by official IRNA news agency. According to Araqchi, a host of issues and recent developments in the implementation of the nuclear deal were discussed in the meeting. "In my opinion, all in all, talks were constructive," he said. All the representatives expressed their commitments to the nuclear deal, better known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), Araqchi noted. There was a determination to save the accord, the Iranian official added. US President Donald Trump pulled Washington out of the JCPOA in May 2018, and precipitated tensions by re-imposing sanctions on Iran. Over the past months, Tehran announced the increase of purity of its enriched uranium beyond 3.67 percent, and surpassed low-grade enriched uranium stockpile beyond 300 kg. The European Union announced the launch of a special payment channel with Iran, namely INSTEX, in January to secure trade with Iran and skirt US anti-Iran sanctions. However, Iran has been critical of the feasibility of the mechanism, urging the EU to make INSTEX operational to supply Iran with petrodollars. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  JCPOA signatories reaffirm commitment to Iran nuclear deal: Chinese delegate UK-planned naval mission provocative: Iran Iran says to continue Arak heavy water activities following redesign Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash