Photo: Chen Qingqing/GT Huawei has not seen any change from the US side thus far concerning its sanctions on the Chinese company though the US pledged to lift the ban, senior executives said on Friday. The company is fully prepared to ensure its business continuity, they noted."We understand Trump's statement concerning sanctions on Huawei being lifted at the G20, but we don't see any tangible change thus far," Liang Hua, the company's chairman, said at a press conference held in the company's headquarters in Shenzhen, South China's Guangdong Province, on Friday. US President Donald Trump said at the G20 summit on June 29 that US companies could sell their equipment to Huawei, as long as transactions will not present a great national emergency problem, CNN reported. This was widely seen as a U-turn after the US government blacklisted Huawei in mid-May for so-called "national security" reasons. Liang said the company is confident in its business continuity, as it has already devised a mature supply continuity program that will ensure its business survives and thrives in spite of the US government crackdown. For instance, its chipset division, HiSilicon, can now ensure the supply of major Huawei products such as smartphones. The comments were made at the launch of Huawei's 2018 sustainability report, which indicates that Huawei's 5G base stations consume 20 percent less power than the industry average.As one of Huawei's backup plans, HongMeng OS is widely seen as an alternative option for its operating system (OS), as Google followed the US government's instruction in May to partially limit the Chinese company's access to Android. "Whether or not HongMeng OS will replace Android is up to Google. If it insists on cutting OS supply to Huawei, HongMeng OS may take to the smartphone business. An open Android system and ecosystem is now a top priority," Liang told the Global Times on Friday.HongMeng OS is designed to be applied in the Internet of Things to increase connectivity, he noted. "It can be used in autonomous driving and remote medical services. As 5G-empowered technology already has a very low latency, HongMeng OS will help further lower latency and enhance connectivity," Liang added. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China's Huawei unveils 1st 5G smartphone in Kuwait Huawei releases first 5G smartphone in 2 weeks, setting off an era of new devices  Huawei OS set for release in August Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Summer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5G