The Trans-Pacific Exchange and Cooperation exhibition at the Shanghai Archives Photo: Chen Xia/GT  

A man explores the exhibition. Photo: Chen Xia/GT  

Nanpu in Shanghai (left) and the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco Photo: Chen Xia/GT

The first Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) restaurant in Shanghai, which opened at the Tung Feng Hotel on the Bund in 1989 Photo: Chen Xia/GTPictures often have the ability to transport viewers back in time to ages long gone. The photos on display at the Trans-Pacific Exchange and Cooperation exhibition at the Shanghai Archives do exactly that, taking visitors on a trip through the past for decades of China's history. Held to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the establishment of China-US diplomatic relations, the exhibition is being held from July 3 to August 15.In its role as a major international financial and trade center, Shanghai has stood witness to the establishment and development of China-US relations. The city has also played an important role in promoting exchanges and cooperation between the two countries since 1972. The cooperation between Shanghai and the US involves various fields and has resulted in numerous success stories over the past four decades. There are over 300 pictures collected from the people living in Shanghai. Visitors can get a direct look at significant moments and results of the relationship between Shanghai and the US.Divided into five sections, the exhibition is a summary of bilateral relations in the fields of diplomacy, business, culture, education, people-to-people exchanges and more.Friends from afarThough separated by the Pacific Ocean, China and the US have maintained a steady relationship, with frequent exchanges and cooperation. Over the past 40 years, a large number of high-ranking US political figures have visited Shanghai. These special historical moments can be seen in the section titled Having Friends Coming from Afar. Noticeably, the economic and trade exchanges between the two countries became increasingly frequent with the establishment of diplomatic relations in 1979. Meanwhile, thanks to China's reform and opening-up in 1978 and the development of the Pudong New Area in 1990, Shanghai's economic and trade exchanges with the US saw unprecedented growth. The pictures and exhibits in Mutually Beneficial and Win-Win Economic and Trade Cooperation section show how this economic cooperation between Shanghai and different parts of the US impacted the city. Interesting pictures such as the opening of the first KFC restaurant and Apple store in Shanghai are on display.A photo in the Rich and Diverse Cultural Contacts section has garnered a lot of attention. It shows the Shanghai premiere of the English version of the classic Peking Opera The Story of Sue San in 1991. Many visitors have been surprised to see two US students in classic Peking Opera makeup on the stage. Seeing such pictures reminds visitors of the close people-to-people exchanges between the two countries. Common developmentA video named 40 People on 40 Years is also being shown at the exhibition. In the video, 20 Chinese and 20 US experts talk about the previous and current cooperation between China and the US, and the future of bilateral relations. Wu Chutian, a student from Tongji University, told the Global Times that he learned a lot about the bilateral relationship between China and the US through the exhibition. According to Wu, he was happy to learn that Shanghai has maintained friendly relations with different cities in the US, such as San Francisco and Chicago, for a long time. "I believe China and the US will promote common development and prosperity, and Shanghai will act as a  bridge between them," Wu said.Newspaper headline: In pictures 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  ‘Godfather’ of real estate industry warns of danger of restrictive policies amid China-US trade war Int'l forum on China-US economic relations calls for continued dialogue China-US rivalry need not be bitter Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Many frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5GChinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US Census