A seminar on the Mozambique-China relationship was held here on Thursday to consolidate mutual trust and push forward closer cooperation to cement the two countries' traditional friendship. Senior government officials, academics, veterans and student representatives attended the event, where former President of Mozambique Joaquim Chissano recalled the solid traditional friendship between the two countries and called for more practical cooperation and deeper exchanges with China. China's support was crucial for Mozambique's fight for liberation, Chissano said, noting that the two countries share common goals such as social justice, equality and independence, and can achieve win-win cooperation. "Some people do not believe in the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), but I think China's willingness to cooperate is sincere," he said. "As long as we Africans stick to our own ideas and goals, by collaborating with this initiative, we can achieve our goals." Proposed by China in 2013 to promote trans-continental connectivity for common growth and shared benefits, the BRI involves infrastructure development, trade and investment facilitation and people-to-people exchanges. "The benefits should be for both sides and improve everyone's life," he said. Chissano, who is also the honorary chairman of Association for the Promotion of China's Peaceful National Reunification in Mozambique, said his country respects and adheres to the one-China policy. Su Jian, Chinese ambassador to Mozambique, told the seminar that the joint experience of fighting challenges side by side and sharing weal and woe has become a precious wealth for both countries, which have been supporting each other like comrades and brothers for 44 years. "Since the establishment of the diplomatic relations, the two countries maintain traditional friendship, mutual political trust and deep brotherhood, firmly defending the core interests of each other," said the ambassador. According to Su, China actively participated in the process of Mozambique's nation-building under the framework of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation and brought bilateral relations into a new phase focusing on pragmatic cooperation. In recent years, with the proposal of the 10 major cooperation plans between China and Africa, cooperation in production capacity has gradually become a high-frequency word in bilateral exchanges, he said. As a comprehensive strategic partner to China, Mozambique has become more prominent in China's cooperation with African countries and the cooperation has yielded fruitful results in the sectors of transportation, medical care, agriculture and education, he added. For cooperation in the future, Su said the two partners share enormous potential and great prospects. "Let's work together to bring concrete benefits and fruits to our people," he said. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Mozambique, Zimbabwe cyclone deaths exceed 300 Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Summer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5G