Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, has stressed concentrating efforts to implement the strategy of strengthening the military through reform to advance the cause of building a strong military in the new era. Xi made the remarks while presiding over a group study session of the CPC Central Committee Political Bureau on reforming military policies and institutions on Tuesday. At the session, held ahead of China's Army Day on August 1, Xi extended greetings to all personnel of the People's Liberation Army, armed police, militia and reserve force on behalf of the CPC Central Committee and the Central Military Commission. Xi noted the historic change to the organizational structure of China's military and the revolutionary shift in its force composition through reforms since the 18th CPC National Congress in 2012. Xi said the reform of military policies and institutions aims to address the incompatibility of policies with the new era, new missions and new institutions. Xi spoke of the need to focus on reform targets, stay confident and determined, and rise to challenges in the reform. He also stressed the complexity of the reform of military policies and institutions and the need to take a holistic approach. Xi said issues to be prioritized include those concerning combat preparedness of the armed forces, key points of operation of the system, as well as those concerning the benefits of officers and soldiers. Xi said the reform of military policies and institutions requires the emancipation of the mind. It is necessary to get rid of all outdated mentalities and acts and stay true to reality in the reform, he said. Xi also stressed the need to study major issues, find the problems, carry out reforms and make proper assessments. Describing it a task shared by the armed forces and the civilian sector, Xi called for concerted efforts to carry out the reform of military policies and institutions. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Xi signs orders to award merit citations to military individuals, unit PLA conducts military exercises in waters near Taiwan island Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash