China's National Health Commission (NHC) released draft regulations on Tuesday, banning institutions and individuals with records of ill-treatment to children from engaging in childcare services.The regulations work as standards for the establishment and management of nurseries, according to the NHC's official WeChat account. "The regulations aim to solve the problem of standardization for nursery institutions," Huang Kuangshi, a researcher at the NHC, told the Beijing News. The document that was released one and a half years after the child abuse scandal in Beijing's RYB Education, requires nurseries to ensure 24-hour security surveillance in the living and activity areas of children, and the footage should be kept in archives for at least 90 days. The regulations also required that nurseries are able to accept migrant children in the cities. Living quarters for children should be at least three square meters per capita. The regulations also clarified nurseries' responsibilities in food, healthcare and security.The heads of nurseries should have a college education or above, with at least three years' experience in child education, and have health and management backgrounds.  Each infant care institution should have a maximum capacity of 150, with at least one security guard on duty, the regulations said. Information on infants should be filed and updated promptly to local authorities. Nursery institutions should conduct health observations during lunch hour and throughout the day, and guardians should be informed promptly once physical, mental and behavioral abnormalities are noticed in a child. In suspected domestic violence cases, institutions should promptly file cases to the public security department, the documents said. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  RYB Education apologizes for child abuse at Beijing kindergarten Should childcare service become a business? Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Many frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5GChinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US Census