The 17th Canada-European Union Summit will be held in Canadian city of Montreal on Wednesday and Thursday, according to the Canadian Prime Minister's Office. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will host the two-day summit with the participation of European Council President Donald Tusk and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker. At the summit, the leaders will explore how Canada and the EU can work together on common priorities and key challenges, including building economies that work for everyone, fighting climate change, advancing gender equality, and defending the rules-based international order. The leaders will highlight the Canada-EU Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) and will also discuss the Strategic Partnership Agreement, signed together with CETA, which is further strengthening ties and deepening cooperation between Canada and the EU. "Canada and the EU are close partners, allies, and friends. We'll discuss how we can work together on the most pressing global challenges and make life better for people on both sides of the Atlantic," Trudeau was quoted as saying. The EU is Canada's second largest trade and investment partner and an ally on many foreign policy and international security issues. CETA was signed in October 2016 and came into force in September 2017, giving Canada preferential access to the EU's more than 500 million consumers. With CETA, 98 percent of EU tariff lines are now duty-free for Canadian goods. In 2018, Canada's merchandise exports to the EU were nearly 44.5 billion Canadian dollars (about 34 billion US dollars), up seven percent over 2017. The Canada-EU Strategic Partnership Agreement, signed in 2016, aims to promote Canada-EU collaboration on a range of issues, including international peace and security, counter-terrorism, human rights, nuclear non-proliferation and climate change. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Ukraine, Canada reach agreements on defense cooperation Trump G7 photo triggers meme explosion in China With waning influence, G7 status challenged Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Summer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5G