People pose for photos with a 3D chalk drawing of a flying plane during the Chalk Howard Street Festival in Chicago, the United States, July 20, 2019. The Chalk Howard Street Festival attracts the internationally-renowned 3D street artists, local 2D chalk artists as well as emerging artists. (Xinhua/Joel Lerner)  

Children chalk drawings during the Chalk Howard Street Festival in Chicago, the United States, July 20, 2019. The Chalk Howard Street Festival attracts the internationally-renowned 3D street artists, local 2D chalk artists as well as emerging artists. (Xinhua/Joel Lerner)  



Artists chalk their drawing during the Chalk Howard Street Festival in Chicago, the United States, July 20, 2019. The Chalk Howard Street Festival attracts the internationally-renowned 3D street artists, local 2D chalk artists as well as emerging artists. (Xinhua/Joel Lerner)  



An artist chalks a 3D snail drawing during the Chalk Howard Street Festival in Chicago, the United States, July 20, 2019. The Chalk Howard Street Festival attracts the internationally-renowned 3D street artists, local 2D chalk artists as well as emerging artists. (Xinhua/Joel Lerner)  



An attendee chalks her own drawing piece during the Chalk Howard Street Festival in Chicago, the United States, July 20, 2019. The Chalk Howard Street Festival attracts the internationally-renowned 3D street artists, local 2D chalk artists as well as emerging artists. (Xinhua/Joel Lerner)  



A man poses for photos with a 3D chalk drawing during the Chalk Howard Street Festival in Chicago, the United States, July 20, 2019. The Chalk Howard Street Festival attracts the internationally-renowned 3D street artists, local 2D chalk artists as well as emerging artists. (Xinhua/Joel Lerner)   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  EU holds European Culture Street festival in Beijing’s CBD People take part in water fight during Armenian Street Festival in Romania Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Earthquake inspectionSummer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money back