The parent company of sports drink Pocari Sweat called on Hong Kong protesters to cease radical behavior that might hurt the company's business prospects, a representative from the company told the Global Times on Monday. When the Hong Kong subsidiary of Japan-based Otsuka Pharmaceutical Company apologized again on China's Twitter-like Weibo social media platform on Sunday, radical protesters in the city still called it the official drink of anti-extradition bill protests. Protesters from opposition groups say they are proud of Pocari Sweat sports drink for withdrawing advertising from news channel TVB over its alleged biased support for the Hong Kong police in its reporting of the protests. At Sunday's protest, the Global Times reporters noted many young protesters drinking Pocari Sweat at the march. A special recycling bag was designed for the product. On social network app Telegram, radical protesters even designed special posters to praise the courage of Pocari Sweat as it stood up for opposition groups. A public relations employee who gave her name as "Nishioka" at the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co headquarters in Tokyo told the Global Times the product was "just a normal beverage" and the company never supported radical actions by opposition groups. She declined to be fully named."The company expects peace and stability and feels regretful for the behavior of opposition groups," she said. After a peaceful procession Sunday supposed to end at Southern Playground, groups of radical protesters moved toward the liaison office of the central government at Sai Ying Pun.They threw eggs and defaced the China national emblem at the office in violation of Hong Kong law and in defiance of national sovereignty. If such behavior continues, it will probably affect the normal business activities of Pocari Sweat, Nishioka said. "The parent company in Japan expects protesters to act in line with regulations and the law, and has no intention of getting involved in any radical movement of opposition." 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Chinese netizens angered by Pocari Sweat's fence-sitting on Hong Kong Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Earthquake inspectionSummer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money back