Andrew Robinson, New Zealand's Consul General in Shanghai announced the launch of the second New Zealand Film Festival in Shanghai on July 17. As the co-hosts of the festival, the Shanghai Film Distribution and Exhibition Association and the Dunedin City Council from New Zealand also sent representatives to the event.  

Andrew Robinson, New Zealand's Consul General in Shanghai Photo: Chen Xia/GT "The New Zealand Film Festival in Shanghai showcases some of what New Zealand has to offer as a creative partner, and a film destination. And we're particularly pleased that the second New Zealand Film Festival is being held this year, during the 2019 China-New Zealand Year of Tourism," Robinson said.He added, "New Zealand is home to some of the world's most talented producers, directors and post-production software and effects designers. And we have great platforms for cooperation. New Zealand and China have both a film co-production and a TV co-production agreement. This provides large incentives and benefits for joint productions. "The sister city relationship between Shanghai and Dunedin, which celebrates its 25th anniversary this year, is an important part of this trend. In film, Dunedin-Shanghai links now include reciprocal film festivals, industry delegations and a professional screenwriter exchange program."

Dave Cull, mayor of Dunedin City Photo: Chen Xia/GT A Chinese-themed film, Yellow is Forbidden (2018) by director/producer Pietra Brettkelly had its China premiere during the event. The documentary features Guo Pei, a brave, daring and diminutive artist from China who enters the international stage of haute couture to chase the dream of becoming part of the exclusive yet savage world of haute couture.  

Pietra Brettkelly, director/producer of Yellow is Forbidden Photo: Chen Xia/GT From a country with the world's largest population, Guo Pei is China's only haute couture designer, with one of her pieces taking 50,000 painstaking hours to complete. Her 500 workers toiled away with age-old embroidery techniques. All the pieces in traditional haute couture fashion are handmade.Brettkelly shared with the audience how she approached Guo Pei and how her team documented "the ups and downs" in Guo's life. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Earthquake inspectionSummer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money back