The cast of Stranger Things Photo: ICThe third season of Netflix's streaming series Stranger Things has become the center of conversation among Chinese netizens after its release on July 4, Independence Day in the US.The TV drama has an 8.9/10 on media review site Douban, beating out the two previous seasons. The hashtag for the show had 220 million views on Chinese Twitter-like Sina Weibo as of Thursday afternoon. "The third season is not just good, it is miraculously good. I could not stop when I started watching the first season. I was planning to take my time to watch the third season, but I couldn't help myself. The storyline is particularly compact and is really worth watching," Han Rui, a student from the Yunnan College of Tourism Vocation, told the Global Times."I really admire writers the Duffer Brothers [Matt and Ross Duffer] because they give the characters growth. After switching from the child's perspective of the previous two seasons to the perspective of teenagers and even adults, the problems they face growing up may be more difficult than defeating supernatural monsters. Audiences also resonated with this type of content more easily, which is precisely the most exciting part of the third season," Dou Ke, a fan of US dramas living in Beijing, told the Global Times. According to a report from the Hollywood Reporter, streaming giant Netflix announced that Stranger Things season three earned record viewership numbers over its first four days as 40.7 million member accounts watched at least part of the third season. Netflix counts a single view as a member account having watched 70 percent of one episode of a series or 70 percent of a film."The reason why I like the third season is because the clothing and setting is based on the 1980s in the US, which is one of my favorite vintage styles," Shen Man, a clothing designer living in Beijing, told the Global Times.One Chinese netizen even posted pictures on Sina Weibo dressing similarly to the characters in the show their love for the style and neon aesthetics of the 1980s.On Alibaba's e-commerce platform Taobao, some merchants have begun selling shirts featuring vintage style designs modeled after those seen in Stranger Things. Many online shops are selling Stranger Things merchandise including T-shirts and mobile phone cases featuring the cast of the show.Some netizens also expressed the desire to buy the Nike Stranger Things sneakers that have been released in the US."I just stayed up late to watch the third season. I wish I could have super powers like Eleven. She was always so smart throughout the season and I strongly suggest Netflix make a fourth season," one netizen commented on Sina Weibo. "When I watched this season, I was just as excited as when I watched Game of Thrones, but I sincerely hope Stranger Things will not have such a disappointing ending," Dou joked. Newspaper headline: Retro Love 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Netflix acquires ‘100 Years of Solitude’ Netflix buys Chinese sci-fi hit The Wandering Earth Directors of Netflix Catalonia documentary return award Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Summer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5G