Family members of Chinese scholar Zhang Yingying head to a federal courthouse building in Peoria, Illinois, the United States, on July 18, 2019. Brendt Christensen, the kidnapper and killer of Chinese scholar Zhang Yingying in 2017, was sentenced on Thursday to life imprisonment without possibility of release, Judge James Shadid announced the verdict in a federal court of Peoria in the U.S. state of Illinois, after the jury failed to reach a unanimous decision on whether he should be sentenced to death or life in prison. (Xinhua/Wang Ping)The Chinese public is outraged Friday morning and strongly denounced the "unfair and unjust" US legal system after the murderer of 26-year-old Zhang Yingying, a Chinese scholar visiting the US, was given a life sentence instead of a death sentence as many had previously demanded. The American man, Brendt Christensen, 30, was sentenced Thursday (local time) to life in prison for the kidnapping and killing of Zhang, a Chinese scholar at the University of Illinois, two years ago. The jury could not reach a unanimous verdict for the death penalty, so a judge imposed the life sentence, CNN reported. Christensen bowed his head and smiled after the court announcement. Zhang's father asked Christensen where his daughter's body was placed as Zhang's remains were never found. Thousands of miles away from the US, many Chinese who had closely followed the case since 2017 are devastated and enraged at the court's failure to impose the death sentence to the killer. The phrase "murderer of Zhang sentenced to life in prison" topped the hot topic list on Sina Weibo, China's Twitter-like platform Friday morning, and it had been viewed more than 200 million times as of 9 am.Some called the US legal system "trash" and "disgusting" for effectively allowing such felonies, as people can kill anyone they want without giving their own lives as penalty. "The US legal system is total garbage, and the jury system which purports justice has completely lost its purpose, and we should all strongly condemn it," reads one comment on Weibo. Some Chinese people even called on parents, urging them not to send their children to the US for study, as a country which tolerates killers will only "encourage" more murders and killings. "Please keep your daughter away from such a country," one netizen posted on WeChat. 

Photo taken on July 18, 2019 shows a federal courthouse building in Peoria, Illinois, the United States. Brendt Christensen, the kidnapper and killer of Chinese scholar Zhang Yingying in 2017, was sentenced on Thursday to life imprisonment without possibility of release, Judge James Shadid announced the verdict in a federal court of Peoria in the U.S. state of Illinois, after the jury failed to reach a unanimous decision on whether he should be sentenced to death or life in prison. (Xinhua/Wang Ping) There were 662,100 Chinese students studying abroad in 2018, China Radio International reported.The sentiment is evident not only on Chinese social media, disappointment regarding the US legal system has also flooded Twitter. Some tweeted that such a person does not deserve to be afforded human rights for brutal murder, and that the jury is “hypocritical.”Zhang went missing in June 2017, when she was on her way to sign an apartment lease. Christensen then took her to his home, raped, choked and stabbed her. He also pummeled her in the head with a baseball bat before decapitating her.A total of 21 states including Illinois in the US have abolished the death penalty, and only 13 states in the past five years have executed a death sentence, according to China Central Television. But in Zhang's case, as it was being tried in a Federal Court, a death sentence could be imposed if the jurors unanimously agreed a verdict.Global Times 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Jury selection to finish next week in Zhang Yingying's case: judge Trial of Zhang Yingying's case begins with jury selection Trial of suspect in Zhang Yingying's case to be livestreamed to Urbana, Illinois Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Earthquake inspectionSummer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money back