A tricycle driver has been prosecuted for illegal medical practice after an epilepsy patient died after taking medicine the quack had sold him.The public prosecution was filed against Li Shiwei, 66, of Hongze district in Huai'an, East China's Jiangsu Province, jcrb.com, a news site under the Supreme People's Procuratorate, reported Tuesday.In June 2018, Li gave a lift to an elderly customer who was on his way to see a doctor, and offered him medicine for mental illness and epilepsy. Li decided to capitalize on the gifted medicines by telling potential customers that it was a secret prescription passed down through generations in his family. To attract more customers, Li printed brochures for the "magic" medicine, which he claimed could cure mental illness and epilepsy. He promoted the brand near hospitals  among patients and their relatives, the report said. On February 1, Li met a patient surnamed Zhao at the entrance of the No. 3 People's Hospital in Huai'an, and claimed that his medicine could cure Zhao's epilepsy.On February 14, Li sold the medicine to Zhao's father for 400 yuan ($58). Zhao died of the side effects after taking Li's medicine on February 23. The local police concluded that the victim suffered from vomiting and severe dehydration after diarrhea and shock caused by Li's fake medicine. In a 2018 campaign launched by the Jiangsu Commission of Health, 2,339 illegal medical practices were filed for investigation. Fines totaling 13.41 million yuan were issued and 5.82 million yuan in illegal income was confiscated. A total of 137 criminal cases were transferred to the public security department for further processing and 11 cases went to court for trial, the Xinhua News Agency reported on March 29. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Quack accused of infecting people with HIV arrested in India Chinese seniors are too gullible about health tips and quackery Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Many frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5GChinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US Census