People carry a rainbow flag - the symbol of the LGBT movement - along a street in Changsha, Central China's Hunan Province, in May 2013 as part of an anti-discrimination march. Photo: ICA high school in South China removed a poster with derogatory descriptions of LGBT people on Wednesday after the words use on the poster sparked outrage on Chinese social media. After learning about the online reaction to the billboard, the school removed the AIDS prevention poster due to its inappropriate words, an anonymous employee from Hengxian No.2 High School in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, told the Global Times on Wednesday. According to photos circulating online, the poster has a "harm of homosexuality" column, which says that homosexuality goes against the laws of nature and that homosexuals are usually emotionally unstable, with a higher risk of suicide or harming others. Homosexuals are a threat to the "normal" groups in society and when the latter wants to stop them, it may cause social instability, said the poster according to online photos. The group also has shorter life span because their physical characteristics do not match their self perception. They are also more vulnerable to drugs due to a spiritual void, said the poster. The school employee explained that the poster was part of an AIDS prevention campaign the school conducted each semester. The school did not carefully review the contents of the poster before putting it up, she said, adding that maybe the poster maker randomly found such things online. A new poster will be put up after the school gets reliable materials from the local AIDS prevention office, she said.  The poster has infuriated the public when photos of it went viral on China's Twitter-like Weibo on Tuesday evening. "Why do such ignorant and discriminatory words still circulate when it is already 2019?" one Weibo user posted. "I cannot imagine how LGBT students at this school feel after seeing this. I hope my LGBT friends will never see or hear words like these," another said.   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Online platforms remove LGBT content, causing concerns over misunderstanding LGBT people conceal status LGBT activists protest sexual orientation therapies in country Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Many frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5GChinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US Census