Members of the Falcon Commando Unit under the Special Police Academy of the Chinese People's Armed Police Forces train in a boat during a "Hell Week" training session in late June. Photo: Cui Meng/GTAs one of the most elite counterterrorism forces in China, the Falcon Commando Unit carried out its grueling seasonal drills in late June. Over the last several years, Falcon members have had to push themselves to their physical limits to safeguard national security and combat crime in some of the most difficult environments. The Falcon Commando Unit carries out four grueling "Hell Week" trainings every year. The second seven-day period of training focuses on water drills. Since the sun is the fiercest in summer, the Falcon squads had to deal with horribly hot temperatures and extremely cold water at the same time. Additionally, soldiers have to get by with little sleep, water and food, which requires them to push their bodies to the limit. Even though they are part of the most preeminent special forces team in China, many members still find the harsh training difficult, with some soldiers suffering severe heatstrokes or passing out during the drills. According to the Xinhua News Agency, the special operations brigade, belonging to the Chinese People's Armed Police Forces, was officially named "Falcon Commando Unit" in 2014 by Chinese President Xi Jinping, who is also chairman of the Central Military Commission. Xi said the Falcons are the top national anti-terror force, and called on the commando unit to proactively fight terrorism, safeguard national security and maintain social stability, Xinhua reported.  Some 30 members of the team overcame extreme cold as they spent 47 days in the mountains and scaled peaks to capture terrorists, reported the China Youth Daily. The brigade has also participated in international competitions. They have represented China's armed police three times in world-class competitions including Jordan's Warrior Competition and The Sniper World Cup in Hungary. They have won seven gold and five silver medals.The team has also hosted joint anti-terrorism drills with soldiers from other countries. Experts in the field of anti-terrorism from other countries, including Israel, Hungary and Jordan, have been invited to train the soldiers of the Falcon Commando Unit.

Two Falcon members carry out water training. Photo: Cui Meng/GT

Falcon members engage in target practice. Photo: Cui Meng/GT

A Falcon member carries out diving training. Photo: Cui Meng/GT

Falcon members enjoy a meal during a field training session. Photo: Cui Meng/GT

 
  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  PLA conducts military exercises in waters near Taiwan island China’s military strong but defensive China keeps active military force at 2 mln after downsizing: white paper Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Working goatsEarthquake inspectionSummer Splash