European Council President Donald Tusk, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker attend a press conference in Kiev, Ukraine, July 8, 2019. Five agreements providing 126.9 million Euro (142.3 million U.S. dollars) aid to Ukraine were signed during the Ukraine-EU summit held in Kiev on Monday, information on the Ukrainian president's official website showed. During the meeting of the Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky, President of the European Council Donald Tusk and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, a number of agreements on cooperation between Ukraine and the EU were signed. (Ukrainian President Office/Handout via Xinhua) 

The Ukraine-EU summit is held in Kiev, Ukraine, July 8, 2019.(Ukrainian President Office/Handout via Xinhua) Five agreements providing 126.9 million Euro (142.3 million US dollars) aid to Ukraine were signed during the Ukraine-EU summit held in Kiev on Monday, information on the Ukrainian president's official website showed. During the meeting of the Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky, President of the European Council Donald Tusk and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, a number of agreements on cooperation between Ukraine and the EU were signed. According to the agreements, 40 million Euro (44.8 million US dollars) of the provided financial aid will be allocated for decentralization reform, 44 million Euro (49.3 million US dollars) for the key reform implementation and the provision of the free trade zone agreement, 22.9 million Euro (25.6 million US dollars) for the anti-corruption initiative, 10 million Euro (11.2 million US dollars) for the civil society and culture support and 10 million Euro (11.2 million US dollars) for the Eastern Ukraine support program. 

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky attends a press conference in Kiev, Ukraine, July 8, 2019. (Xinhua/Sergey) During the press conference held after the Ukrainian and EU officials meeting, Zelensky thanked the European partners for their willingness to provide Ukraine with the second tranche of the fourth macro-financial assistance program which amounts in 500 million Euro (560.6 million US dollars). Ukrainian president invited European officials to assess the implementation of the Ukraine-EU Association Agreement and expressed his commitment to further cooperation with the EU. "We are committed to further sectoral integration of the markets of Ukraine and the EU in priority areas: energy, the digital market, justice and internal affairs, customs cooperation and trade facilitation," Zelensky said during the press conference. The Ukraine-European Union Association Agreement came into force on 1 September 2017.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Ukraine, Canada reach agreements on defense cooperation Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Many frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5GChinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US Census