The President of the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC) Luca Jahier is in Shanghai for the 17th EU-China Round Table, bringing together the EESC and the China Economic and Social Council (CESC), according to the EU Delegation to China on Thursday. "I see the contribution of the EU-China Round Table in the context of the overall relationship between the EU and China. Our role is to enhance the effectiveness of the partnership by providing informed and well-debated recommendations to the political authorities on both sides, with the joint aim to work together for peace, prosperity and sustainable development," Jahier said, opening the round table with his counterparts, Du Qinglin, chairman of the CESC and Zhou Bohua, vice chairman of the CESC.The CESC has maintained relations with the EESC since 2001, promoting exchanges between civil societies in the field of sustainable development, trade and investment. The cooperation between the two sides has been recognized in the EU-China Strategic 2020 Agenda for Cooperation, which was adopted in 2013.  Taking place in Shanghai, this year's EU-China Round Table focuses on big data, digital revolution and its impact on society, as well as the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development and the Paris Climate Agreement. "Technological innovations are neither good nor bad. It is how we deal with the possibilities they offer, which will have either beneficial or detrimental outcomes. This is why we need to address the questions surrounding big data at the global level, framing it in international and national laws," Jahier said.Jahier reiterated that the EU and China shared commitments and interest in global sustainable development. "The EU and China share common views in many areas. The ever-increasing interdependence in this globally-connected world will put demands on us in terms of closer cooperation and face common challenges, such as sustainable development," the EESC president said, encouraging the round table to take the lead internationally in the area of sustainable development. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Chinese telecom giant ZTE launches its Cybersecurity Lab Europe in Brussels China, EU should further strengthen cooperation Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Summer SplashMany frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5G