Incidents of violence erupted in different states of the United States on Thursday, July 4, casting shadows on the country's jubilant celebrations of the "Fourth of July" Independence Day, according to media reports. In Poulsbo city in the US western state of Washington, police shot dead a man during a fireworks show on the eve of the Independence Day. The Seattle Post-Intelligencer quoted the Poulsbo Police Department as saying that police officers received reports of a man threatening people as a large crowd was converging at Waterfront Park of Poulsbo city to watch the fireworks show. One of the officers shot at the man with his handgun and struck him, who later died from gunshot wounds. Police did not disclose the victim's identity nor other details including his age and residence. Outside the White House in Washington D.C., according to the US Secret Service, two people were arrested for "burning an American flag outside the limits of a permit that had been issued by the National Park Service." One person was arrested for felony assault on a police officer and malicious burning, and the other was arrested for obstructing a police investigation and resisting arrest, said a report of US political website The Hill quoting Secret Service officials. Two officers were injured while attempting to make the arrests. Also on Thursday at a plasma donation center in Petersburg, eastern US state of Virginia, the police arrested an unidentified suspect after several people were stabbed, according to CNN's affiliate WTVR. Three victims of the attack were taken to Southside Regional Medical Center to have their injuries treated. At least one of them was in critical condition. Following an annual fireworks show on the Chicago shoreline of Lake Michigan, another three people were stabbed in a fight, and 16 others were taken to hospitals after being trampled by people fleeing the scene, according to Chicago police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi. A series of celebration activities were held within the country on Saturday which marked the 243rd anniversary of the US declaration of independence from Britain. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  People celebrate Independence Day across US US police shoot man dead in fireworks show on eve of Independence Day 2 protesters arrested for burning US flag outside White House on Independence Day Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Many frustrated Chinese EB-5 investors want their money backExperiencing 5GChinese Americans encouraged to take part in 2020 US Census