Sangay Tenzin reads books at a book store of the Beijing Language and Culture University in Beijing, capital of China, May 14, 2019. Sangay Tenzin, a Bhutanese student of Beijing Language and Culture University, is one of the photographers whose work was accepted by an exhibition themed "Diversity of Asian Civilizations in Youth Eyes", on the sidelines of the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations (CDAC). In his photo, a farmer pours radishes into a basket with traditional Bhutanese houses scattering far behind. His work focuses on the agriculture of Bhutan and reflects the characteristics of the nation. Sangay Tenzin majored in tourism management in Bhutan and now is studying Chinese in Beijing. He wants to open a tourism company in his hometown after graduation, cooperating with Chinese travel agencies. "My country has an opportunity to present its culture thanks to the CDAC. I'm also able to see the diversity of Asian civilizations because of this conference," said Sangay. (Xinhua/Li He)  

Sangay Tenzin walks on the campus of the Beijing Language and Culture University in Beijing, capital of China, May 14, 2019. Sangay Tenzin, a Bhutanese student of Beijing Language and Culture University, is one of the photographers whose work was accepted by an exhibition themed "Diversity of Asian Civilizations in Youth Eyes", on the sidelines of the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations (CDAC). In his photo, a farmer pours radishes into a basket with traditional Bhutanese houses scattering far behind. His work focuses on the agriculture of Bhutan and reflects the characteristics of the nation. Sangay Tenzin majored in tourism management in Bhutan and now is studying Chinese in Beijing. He wants to open a tourism company in his hometown after graduation, cooperating with Chinese travel agencies. "My country has an opportunity to present its culture thanks to the CDAC. I'm also able to see the diversity of Asian civilizations because of this conference," said Sangay. (Xinhua/Li He)  

Sangay Tenzin displays traditional costumes made by his mother on the campus of the Beijing Language and Culture University in Beijing, capital of China, May 14, 2019. Sangay Tenzin, a Bhutanese student of Beijing Language and Culture University, is one of the photographers whose work was accepted by an exhibition themed "Diversity of Asian Civilizations in Youth Eyes", on the sidelines of the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations (CDAC). In his photo, a farmer pours radishes into a basket with traditional Bhutanese houses scattering far behind. His work focuses on the agriculture of Bhutan and reflects the characteristics of the nation. Sangay Tenzin majored in tourism management in Bhutan and now is studying Chinese in Beijing. He wants to open a tourism company in his hometown after graduation, cooperating with Chinese travel agencies. "My country has an opportunity to present its culture thanks to the CDAC. I'm also able to see the diversity of Asian civilizations because of this conference," said Sangay. (Xinhua/Li He)  

Sangay Tenzin displays traditional costumes made by his mother on the campus of the Beijing Language and Culture University in Beijing, capital of China, May 14, 2019. Sangay Tenzin, a Bhutanese student of Beijing Language and Culture University, is one of the photographers whose work was accepted by an exhibition themed "Diversity of Asian Civilizations in Youth Eyes", on the sidelines of the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations (CDAC). In his photo, a farmer pours radishes into a basket with traditional Bhutanese houses scattering far behind. His work focuses on the agriculture of Bhutan and reflects the characteristics of the nation. Sangay Tenzin majored in tourism management in Bhutan and now is studying Chinese in Beijing. He wants to open a tourism company in his hometown after graduation, cooperating with Chinese travel agencies. "My country has an opportunity to present its culture thanks to the CDAC. I'm also able to see the diversity of Asian civilizations because of this conference," said Sangay. (Xinhua/Li He)  

Photo taken by Sangay Tenzin shows a farmer pouring radishes into a basket in Bhutan. This photo is displayed in a photographic exhibition themed "Diversity of Asian Civilizations in Youth Eyes". Sangay Tenzin, a Bhutanese student of Beijing Language and Culture University, is one of the photographers whose work was accepted by an exhibition themed "Diversity of Asian Civilizations in Youth Eyes", on the sidelines of the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations (CDAC). In his photo, a farmer pours radishes into a basket with traditional Bhutanese houses scattering far behind. His work focuses on the agriculture of Bhutan and reflects the characteristics of the nation. Sangay Tenzin majored in tourism management in Bhutan and now is studying Chinese in Beijing. He wants to open a tourism company in his hometown after graduation, cooperating with Chinese travel agencies. "My country has an opportunity to present its culture thanks to the CDAC. I'm also able to see the diversity of Asian civilizations because of this conference," said Sangay. (Xinhua/Sangay Tenzin)  

File photo taken in November of 2018 shows Sangay Tenzin (2nd R) posing for a photo with friends on the Great Wall in Beijing, capital of China. Sangay Tenzin, a Bhutanese student of Beijing Language and Culture University, is one of the photographers whose work was accepted by an exhibition themed "Diversity of Asian Civilizations in Youth Eyes", on the sidelines of the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations (CDAC). In his photo, a farmer pours radishes into a basket with traditional Bhutanese houses scattering far behind. His work focuses on the agriculture of Bhutan and reflects the characteristics of the nation. Sangay Tenzin majored in tourism management in Bhutan and now is studying Chinese in Beijing. He wants to open a tourism company in his hometown after graduation, cooperating with Chinese travel agencies. "My country has an opportunity to present its culture thanks to the CDAC. I'm also able to see the diversity of Asian civilizations because of this conference," said Sangay. (Xinhua) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth