Srikanth KondapalliEditor's Note:The Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations (CDAC) is attracting attention worldwide as topics such as the theory of the clash of civilizations have spurred serious discussions during side events. Global Times reporters Wang Wenwen, Zhao Yusha and Zhang Ao interviewed CDAC delegates to get their ideas on the issues and how the conference, which started Wednesday in Beijing, will help promote mutual understanding and knowledge sharing.  Srikanth Kondapalli, Chairman of Centre for East Asian Studies in Jawaharlal Nehru UniversityOnce President Xi Jinping said about [the] stupidity of superior cultures at the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations and suddenly there's clapping, from people in the room. It appears that there's a lot of attention on [the] clash of civilization, which caused a lot of problems in places such like Afghanistan, Syria, and Egypt. No culture should feel superior, as we are all in the globalization process, there's the scope of learning from each other. The cultural and civilization exchanges between China and India are doing well. Agreements signed between foreign ministers [of the two countries] last year targeted expanding culture cooperation in areas such as movie production, music management, teaching Chinese language, boosting tourism and other areas.When Indian star Aamir Khan appeared in the conference yesterday, a lot of people were taking photographs of him. Many Indian movies, such as Dangal became very popular in [the] Chinese market. In order to attract Chinese tourists, the Indian government launched the e-visa, loosening the visa system. We have a lot of strong points, compared to a decade ago, when we barely had much tourism. It is now increasing.Chinese and Indian civilizations are among the oldest and richest civilizations in the world. There's inherent cultural strength that China and India have. Despite all these things that [have] happened, such as colonialism, modernization, their long historical continuity and cultural resilience help to preserve the strong base of centuries-old civilizations. And now they are making efforts to expand it. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starUnrealistic expectations thwart Chinese job recruitersDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los Angeles