Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan, chairwoman of the National Assembly of Vietnam, delivers a speech at the opening ceremony of the seventh session of the 14th National Assembly in Hanoi, capital of Vietnam, May 20, 2019. The seventh session of the 14th National Assembly of Vietnam, the country's top legislature, kicked off here on Monday, focusing on reviewing and adopting draft laws. (Xinhua/VNA)

The opening ceremony of the seventh session of the 14th National Assembly of Vietnam is held in Hanoi, capital of Vietnam, on May 20, 2019. The seventh session of the 14th National Assembly of Vietnam, the country's top legislature, kicked off here on Monday, focusing on reviewing and adopting draft laws. (Xinhua/VNA)  The seventh session of the 14th National Assembly (NA) of Vietnam, the country's top legislature, kicked off here on Monday, focusing on reviewing and adopting draft laws. "First, the NA will review and pass seven draft laws, two draft resolutions and give comments on nine other draft laws," NA Chairwoman Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan said at the session's opening ceremony. The NA is expected to pass a draft law on amending some articles of the Law on Insurance Business and the Law on Intellectual Property, give comments on a bill on the Labor Code (amendment), and ratify the International Labor Organization's Right to Organize and Collective Bargaining Convention to ensure compatibility with Vietnam's commitments in relevant international documents, the top legislator noted. 

The opening ceremony of the seventh session of the 14th National Assembly of Vietnam is held in Hanoi, capital of Vietnam, on May 20, 2019. The seventh session of the 14th National Assembly of Vietnam, the country's top legislature, kicked off here on Monday, focusing on reviewing and adopting draft laws. (Xinhua/VNA) "Second, the NA will review reports of additional evaluation on results of the implementation of the socio-economic development plan and state budget in 2018 and a report on results of the implementation of the socio-economic development plan and state budget in the first months of 2019; adopting the 2017 state budget settlement; and making decisions on additional projects on mid-term public investment in the 2016-2020 period," she said. The NA will also review a thematic oversight report on the implementation of policies and laws on land planning, management and usage in urban areas since the Law on Land took effect in July 2014. The session is scheduled to conclude on June 14. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star