The benchmark Nikkei stock index closed lower Friday on continued concerns over the outlook for the global economy amid trade issues. The 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average lost 33.92 points, or 0.16 percent, from Thursday to close the day at 21,117.22. The broader Topix index of all First Section issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, meanwhile, edged 0.63 point, or 0.04 percent, higher to finish at 1,541.21. Trading here inherited a negative tone from Wall Street's overnight sell-off, as investors switched out of riskier assets and into safe havens, amid growing concerns over global trade issues and the potential impact on the course of the world economy, market strategists here said. The market mood was further dragged down by data released by global research firm IHS Markit showing that business activity growth had faltered in the eurozone, United States and Japan. Losses were trimmed in later trade, however, as the yen retreated against the US dollar, which is always a boon for exporters as they rely on a weaker yen to boost profits when repatriated and stay competitive in overseas markets, local equity analysts highlighted. Also helping to cap losses was investors switching to domestic-demand driven issues that are not exposed to macroeconomic turbulence, such as cyclical issues, traders here said. Issues broadly exposed to overseas markets duly retreated, with semiconductor maker Tokyo Electron dropping 2.5 percent, while industrial robotics maker Fanuc closed the day 1.0 percent lower. Out of issues driven by domestic demand, Kansai Electric Power was a notable winner, ending the day 1.6 percent higher. By the close of play, mining, oil and coal product, and marine transportation-linked issues comprised those that declined the most, and issues that rose outpaced those that fell by 1,180 to 867 on the First Section, while 94 ended unchanged. On the main section on Friday, 1,246.71 million shares changed hands, rising from Thursday's volume of 1,155.42 million shares. The turnover on the final trading day of the week came to 2,128.4 billion yen (19.41 billion US dollars). Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star