Drunken dragon dance is performed during the Drunken Dragon Festival to celebrate Buddha's birthday in south China's Macao, May 12, 2019. Recognized as an item of China's national intangible cultural heritage, the Drunken Dragon Festival originates from a Macao legend of a Buddhist monk and a divine dragon who saved people from the plague during the Qing Dynasty. (Photo: Xinhua)  

A man performs drunk dragon dance during the Drunken Dragon Festival to celebrate the Buddha's birthday in south China's Macao, May 12, 2019. Recognized as an item of China's national intangible cultural heritage, the Drunken Dragon Festival originates from a Macao legend of a Buddhist monk and a divine dragon who saved people from the plague during the Qing Dynasty. (Photo: Xinhua)  

A drunk dragon dance performer burns incense before performing during the Drunken Dragon Festival in south China's Macao, May 12, 2019. Recognized as an item of China's national intangible cultural heritage, the Drunken Dragon Festival originates from a Macao legend of a Buddhist monk and a divine dragon who saved people from the plague during the Qing Dynasty. (Photo: Xinhua)

Drunken dragon dance is performed during the Drunken Dragon Festival to celebrate Buddha's birthday in south China's Macao, May 12, 2019. Recognized as an item of China's national intangible cultural heritage, the Drunken Dragon Festival originates from a Macao legend of a Buddhist monk and a divine dragon who saved people from the plague during the Qing Dynasty. (Photo: Xinhua) 

Drunken dragon dance is performed during the Drunken Dragon Festival to celebrate Buddha's birthday in south China's Macao, May 12, 2019. Recognized as an item of China's national intangible cultural heritage, the Drunken Dragon Festival originates from a Macao legend of a Buddhist monk and a divine dragon who saved people from the plague during the Qing Dynasty. (Photo: Xinhua) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth