Huawei's chief financial officer (CFO) Meng Wanzhou. Photo: VCGHuawei chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou is very likely to overcome the extradition to the US, according to a Canadian legal professional, ahead of Meng's scheduled appearance in a court in Vancouver on Wednesday morning, local time.Meng was arrested in December 1 while traveling from Hong Kong to Mexico via Canada. She posted a $7.5 million bail ten days later.She is scheduled to appear before the Supreme Court of British Columbia in Vancouver at 10 am on Wednesday, according to media reports. Meng's lawyers would be able to bring forward additional pre-hearing applications and discuss minor bail amendments on Wednesday, The Star newspaper in Vancouver reported Monday, citing Justice Canada. CBC reported that Meng's legal team would likely provide a roadmap on Wednesday along with the beginnings of a strategy for extradition proceedings.Meng's legal team has not replied to the Global Times on the alleged roadmap as of press time.The Wednesday court appearance could be mostly procedural. "The Record of the Case will be filed, followed by applications from the defense regarding due process," Gary Botting, a veteran extradition and criminal defense lawyer in Canada, told the Global Times on Tuesday in an e-mail.Some analysts warned that it is possible that Meng would be extradited to the US; otherwise, the Canadian court wouldn't even start the procedure and say there is "sufficient evidence." However, Botting said he anticipates a strong case from Meng. He said that process had been "unfair" and "political" from the beginning and "therefore outside the sphere of extradition."The Canadian and US sides insist that Meng's case was judicial and not targeted at containing China in the ongoing China-US trade talks. But Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland acknowledged in an interview with Canadian media CBC in February that the minister of justice might need to make a political decision about whether to approve the extradition.Botting noted that the Canadian justice minister should question the motives of the US."No international corporate executive expects to be arrested arbitrarily by a foreign power on a layover for a flight that would take her to a third country where she has a commitment to promote her product or brand," Botting said. Canada does not have a law which allows it to reach outside its jurisdiction for alleged corporate malfeasance; and Meng's Charter rights were violated over and over again at the initial arrest stage of these proceedings, according to Botting. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun