The community of a shared future, a concept initiated by China, is a crucial strategy to avoid conflicts between civilizations, chaos and tragedy of wars, a British business adviser and expert in public diplomacy and on China has said. Alistair Michie, secretary general of the London-based British East Asia Council, told Xinhua in a recent interview that the concept, which he thinks describes a world defined by mutual cooperation, is about promoting a community of shared future embracing projects like China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative and the Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank. Michie made the remarks ahead of the coming Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations (CDAC) which will start on May 15 in Beijing. The business adviser, who has been invited to attend the conference, said the event is a great opportunity to create fresh thinking and ideas about how to reform communications between Asia, China and Europe. "It was fresh thinking and policies that created the vast economic 'reform and opening,'" he said. "Now fresh thinking is needed to create a comparable communication 'reform and opening.'" Michie said the concept of the community of a shared future is the optimal path to create a peaceful and sustainable global future for the benefit of all mankind. "It is vital that this policy overcomes the growing nationalism, populism and self-interest arising in many nations," he said. More than 2,000 government officials and representatives of various circles from 47 Asian countries and countries outside the region are expected to attend the CDAC opening ceremony and forums. Michie said he hopes that CDAC will communicate its messages around the world and motivate billions of people. "The world faces immense challenges that will only by solved by all the people of the world acting in unison," he said. "For example, climate change, nuclear threats and the stability of the global financial system." "Mutual respect, mutual understanding and mutual learning about each other's civilizations is the path to tackle these immense problems," Michie said. "They are crucial steps if mankind is to deliver a sustainable and peaceful world." Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth