Photo taken on May 8, 2019 shows the broken passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines at the Yangon International Airport in Yangon, Myanmar. Some 18 people including five crew members were injured after a passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport (YIA) on Wednesday, said the Department of Civil Aviation Myanmar. (Photo: Xinhua)Some 18 people including five crew members were injured after a passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport (YIA) on Wednesday, said the Department of Civil Aviation Myanmar.The Biman Flight No. BG-60 from Dhaka to Yangon carrying 28 passengers and six crew members skidded off the runway at around 6:50 p.m. local time (1220 GMT)."At least 16 people including a pilot with head injury have been sent to the North Okkalapa General Hospital for treatment so far," Zwe Yan Naing, chairman of Shweyaung Thamaing, Emergency Rescue and Social Support Organization, told Xinhua earlier.The Bombardier Dash 8 aircraft veered off the runway during the landing attempt due to heavy rains and poor visibility, said a statement from the Yangon Aerodrome Company Limited, the operator of the YIA.The runway reopened two hours after the accident and an investigation was underway.

Photo taken on May 8, 2019 shows the broken passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines at the Yangon International Airport in Yangon, Myanmar. Some 18 people including five crew members were injured after a passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport (YIA) on Wednesday, said the Department of Civil Aviation Myanmar. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Photo taken on May 8, 2019 shows the broken passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines at the Yangon International Airport in Yangon, Myanmar. Some 18 people including five crew members were injured after a passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport (YIA) on Wednesday, said the Department of Civil Aviation Myanmar. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Photo taken with a mobile phone shows rescuers gathering at the Yangon International Airport in Yangon, Myanmar, May 8, 2019. At least 16 people were injured after a passenger plane of Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport on Wednesday, airport police said. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Photo taken with a mobile phone shows ambulances and rescue vehicles at the Yangon International Airport in Yangon, Myanmar, May 8, 2019. At least 16 people were injured after a passenger plane of Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport on Wednesday, airport police said. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Photo taken with a mobile phone shows an injured person in an ambulance at Yangon International Airport in Yangon, Myanmar, May 8, 2019. At least 16 people were injured after a passenger plane of Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport on Wednesday, airport police said. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Photo taken with a mobile phone shows ambulances at the Yangon International Airport in Yangon, Myanmar, May 8, 2019. At least 16 people were injured after a passenger plane of Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport on Wednesday, airport police said. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Rescuers gather at the Yangon International Airport in Yangon, Myanmar, May 8, 2019. Some 18 people including five crew members were injured after a passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport (YIA) on Wednesday, said the Department of Civil Aviation Myanmar. (Photo: Xinhua)  

An injured person is carried on a stretcher at the Yangon International Airport in Yangon, Myanmar, May 8, 2019. Some 18 people including five crew members were injured after a passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport (YIA) on Wednesday, said the Department of Civil Aviation Myanmar. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Ambulances are seen at the Yangon International Airport in Yangon, Myanmar, May 8, 2019. Some 18 people including five crew members were injured after a passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport (YIA) on Wednesday, said the Department of Civil Aviation Myanmar. (Photo: Xinhua)  

An injured person (C) receives treatment at the Yangon International Airport in Yangon, Myanmar, May 8, 2019. Some 18 people including five crew members were injured after a passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport (YIA) on Wednesday, said the Department of Civil Aviation Myanmar. (Photo: Xinhua)  

An injured person is carried into an ambulance at the Yangon International Airport in Yangon, Myanmar, May 8, 2019. Some 18 people including five crew members were injured after a passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport (YIA) on Wednesday, said the Department of Civil Aviation Myanmar. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Rescuers gather at the Yangon International Airport in Yangon, Myanmar, May 8, 2019. Some 18 people including five crew members were injured after a passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport (YIA) on Wednesday, said the Department of Civil Aviation Myanmar. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Photo taken on May 8, 2019 shows the Yangon General Hospital, which received several injured persons from the broken passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines, in Yangon, Myanmar. Some 18 people including five crew members were injured after a passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport (YIA) on Wednesday, said the Department of Civil Aviation Myanmar. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Medical workers and rescuers are seen at the North Okkalapa General Hospital, which received injured persons from the broken passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines, in Yangon, Myanmar, May 8, 2019. Some 18 people including five crew members were injured after a passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport (YIA) on Wednesday, said the Department of Civil Aviation Myanmar. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Photo taken on May 8, 2019 shows the North Okkalapa General Hospital, which received injured persons from the broken passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines, in Yangon, Myanmar. Some 18 people including five crew members were injured after a passenger plane of the Biman Bangladesh airlines skidded off the runway at Myanmar's Yangon International Airport (YIA) on Wednesday, said the Department of Civil Aviation Myanmar. (Photo: Xinhua) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun