The exchange rates for the offshore and onshore yuan declined to new 2019 lows against the US dollar on Monday, but experts said that the currency will remain stable.The offshore yuan fell more than 550 basis points (bps) to 6.90 against the US dollar on Monday morning, Wallstreetcn reported. The onshore yuan fell to 6.86 against the US dollar, down more than 400 bps from Friday's close.The central parity rate of the yuan was 6.7954 against the US dollar on Monday, up 42 bps from the previous session, according to data from the China Foreign Exchange Trade System (CFETS). That was the lowest rate in more than three and one-half months. The spot rate of the yuan against the US dollar closed at 6.8118 in the previous session.Chief economist Xu Gao from Bank of China International said that the trade dispute between China and US greatly affected the exchange rate of the yuan. Shao Yu, chief economist from Orient Securities, said the yuan's tumble was direct feedback from the market about this negative event and in the short term, the yuan would come under pressure against the US dollar."The trade war is a double-edged sword that harms both the yuan and the dollar," said Xu. "China's economy remains stable and this year the decline in GDP has been curbed. The exchange rate of the yuan will stabilize."China's macroeconomic policy has gradually come into play since the beginning of the year, according to Tan Yaling, director of the China Forex Investment Research Institute. "In the second half of 2019, China's economic growth is expected to stabilize, while US economic growth will continue to decline. The relative changes in economic growth will help stabilize the exchange rate of the yuan," Tan said. The People's Bank of China (PBC), the central bank, said on Monday that it had renewed a bilateral currency swap agreement with Singapore's monetary authority with a value of 300 billion yuan ($ 43.6 billion). The agreement is valid for three years and can be extended upon mutual agreement. Xu said that the swap agreement shows the international community's recognition of and demand for the yuan.The CFETS RMB index fell from 95.63 to 94.79 Monday, down 0.84, or less than 0.88 percent. The yuan depreciated against the US dollar but remained within a stable range against other currencies. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth