Secretary General of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) Saeb Erekat said on Saturday that the US government is trying to "de-legitimize" Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. The United States has "waged a war against Abbas by all means," because Abbas rejects anything that contradicts international law regarding the Palestinian cause, Erekat told the official radio station Voice of Palestine. His statements came after Jason Greenblatt, US President Donald Trump's Middle East envoy, accused the Palestinians of trying to "kill" the US peace plan before it was unveiled. "The plan can offer them (Palestinians) something that can be exciting and can transform their current situation ... They should sit tight and hold their fire until the plan comes out," Greenblatt was quoted by Israeli public radio as saying. The PLO official, however, said the Americans have not shown the Palestinian side any plans, and the Palestinians only see the US recognition of Jerusalem as Israeli capital, the US closure of PLO office in Washington and its legitimization of Jewish settlements on the Palestinian territory, which violate international law. Erekat criticized the US moves for trying to test the Palestinians' patience and forcing the Palestinians to join the negotiation table. "But we totally boycott the US government," he noted. Trump's advisor Jared Kushner previously said Trump's peace plan will be unveiled in June, after the current month of Ramadan. The Palestinian Authority has been boycotting the US government since it recognized Jerusalem as Israel's capital in December 2017 and moved its embassy in Israel to Jerusalem in May 2018. Meanwhile, the US government has taken several steps against Palestinians, including shutting down the PLO office in Washington, cutting aid to both the Palestinians and the UN agency providing support for the Palestinian refugees. Abbas has repeatedly said the US "Deal of the Century" falls way short of the expectations and aspirations of the Palestinian people for lasting and just peace settlement, calling for an international multilateral peace mechanism to overlook peace negotiations. The last round of US-sponsored negotiations between Palestine and Israel ended in 2014 after almost nine months of talks without achieving any breakthrough. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth