The cast of X-Men: Dark Phoenix attend a press conference in Beijing on Wednesday. Photo: Liu Shujia/GTTo the cheers of fans, film director Simon Kinberg along with main cast members including James McAvoy, Michael Fassbender, Sophie Turner, Evan Peters and Tye Sheridan attended the press conference of the latest film in the X-Men series, X-Men: Dark Phoenix, was held in Beijing on Wednesday. The cast of the final film in this 20-year-old superhero films series sat down to answer questions from excited Chinese fans.His first time coming to China, McAvoy shared his experiences shooting the film as well as insight into the relationship between the film's two main characters - the benevolent Professor X and the militant mutant rights leader Magneto. "I think Professor X respects Magneto and treats him like a senior person," said McAvoy. "They actually created each other, Charles [Professor X] built Magneto and Magneto built Professor X."Fassbender said that he believes that Professor X is Magneto's best, and maybe only friend, but they can't remain together because of their different opinions about the future of mutantkind.Sophie Turner plays Jean Grey, the titular Dark Phoenix, in the film. The actress is also known for playing the role of Sansa in the popular Game of Thrones. Fans were curious about how the actress is playing the different, yet both strong female roles. "They look quite similar," Sophie joked. "I wanted to use my blonde hair to help audiences forget the previous role." She added that she will try to play different types of characters in the future to see what will happen. At the end of the conference, McAvoy, Fassbender and Peters talked about their Chinese nicknames with fans. McAvoy was very curious about the pronunciation of Peters' nickname Xiao Tianshi, or Little Angel, to which the host joked that fans could teach him how to say it after the conference. X-Men Dark Phoenix will arrive in Chinese mainland theaters on June 6. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Contribution rememberedChild porn arrests shock S.California Chinese communityUtah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental Railroad