Thai King Maha Vajiralongkorn on Saturday afternoon granted an audience with royal family members and officials in the Grand Palace, and asked all Thais to work together with him for the kingdom's prosperity and people's well-being. King Vajiralongkorn has received holy water during the "Muratha Bhisek" and "Abhiseka" rituals according to Thai tradition and he was then offered the Royal Regalia and formally crowned. On Saturday afternoon, he with the crown on his head granted an audience with royal family members and officials, who congratulated him on this occasion at the Amarindra Vinijaya Mahaisuraya Biman Throne Hall of the Grand Palace. His sister, Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn, represented the royal family to offer their congratulations. The royal family will be devoted, honest and royal, and they will work hard according to each's responsibility, Princess Sirindhorn said to the king. Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha spoke on behalf of the cabinet, armed forces, civil servants and the public while Pornpetch Wichitcholchai, the president of the National Legislative Assembly, represented the legislative institute and Supreme Court president Cheep Jullamon the judicial branch. They all paid homage to the king on the occasion of his coronation. The king thanked all the participants and asked all Thais to work hard together with him according to each's job and responsibility for the national prosperity and the well-being of the people. After the audience, the king walked to the Temple of the Emerald Buddha inside the grounds of the Grand Palace, where he was named Upholder of Buddhism, which is another ritual of the coronation ceremonies on Saturday. King Vajiralongkorn ascended the Thai throne in 2016, becoming King Rama X. His coronation ceremony lasts for three days from Saturday, and all importance ceremonies would be televised throughout Thailand. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun