Australia's longest-serving Labor prime minister Bob Hawke died Thursday aged 89."Today we lost Bob Hawke, a great Australian - many would say the greatest Australian of the post-war era," his second wife Blanche d'Alpuget said in a statement. "He died peacefully at home."The son of a preacher, Hawke led his country during the 1980s, a period during which he seduced the nation with his everyman appeal while beginning deregulation of the economy, including floating the dollar.Hawke was a huge presence on Australia's political landscape. Never voted out by the public, which forgave him his faults, he won four elections on the run beginning in 1983, and only left office following a party room coup.To many he was a quintessential Australian "larrikin" - a beloved rogue.His death comes days before Australians go to the polls.The Labor Party posted a tribute on Twitter to one of their most fondly-remembered characters. "Vale Bob. We will remember him. In solidarity, forever. May he rest in peace.""When you would go out campaigning with Bob you were... absolutely mobbed," recalled Hawke cabinet member Susan Ryan."He was extremely popular with the women voters. They really, really liked to get near him and to touch him and to get him to sign the autographs and so forth."And the men liked him too because he was a sportsman and he had been a very effective trade union leader. So he was certainly Mr. Popularity."When Australia won the America's Cup yacht race in 1983, a jubilant Hawke sporting a white blazer printed with the words 'Australia,' memorably said: "Any boss who sacks a worker for not turning up today is a bum."Nonetheless, he helped forge a consensus between labor unions and business, and used his appeal to win broad support for economic reforms which sometimes saw critics accuse him of moving the Labor Party to the right.Robert James Lee Hawke was born on December 9, 1929 in Bordertown in South Australia state, the younger of two sons. After his brother Neil died from meningitis in his teens, the family moved to Perth in Western Australia state. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starUnrealistic expectations thwart Chinese job recruitersDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los Angeles