China on Monday voiced firm support for Pakistan's anti-terrorism efforts, after the South Asian country has taken swift steps to wipe out terrorists staging a casualty-incurred attack targeting foreign investors in the southwestern city of Gwadar. Separatist group Balochistan Liberation Army's (BLA) Majeed Brigade faction has claimed responsibility for the attack Saturday at the Pearl Continental Hotel in Gwadar, Baluchistan Province, and said the target was Chinese and other foreign investors staying at the hotel. "China strongly condemns the terrorist attack targeted at the hotel," Foreign Ministry spokesperson Geng Shuang told a press briefing. "We'd like to express condolences to Pakistani personnel who lost their lives in the attack, and convey sympathy to the bereaved families and the injured." "As far as we know from the Pakistani side, there are no reports of Chinese casualties at this time." Geng said China appreciates the timely measures taken by Pakistani security forces to deal with the terrorists, which have effectively safeguarded Gwadar's security and stability as well as the safety of Chinese personnel and institutions stationed there. "We will continue to firmly support Pakistan's efforts in fighting terrorism, and believe that the Pakistani government and military have the capacity to maintain national security and stability," the spokesperson said. China has taken note of Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan's condemnation of the attack as an effort to "sabotage the economy and prosperity," and his statement that the country will "not allow these agendas to succeed," he said. "China has been consistent in supporting Pakistan's national development. We'll continue to support economic and social development as well as the improvement of people's livelihood in the country," Geng added. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth