US special counsel Robert Mueller expressed concerns in a letter to Attorney General William Barr that Barr's four-page summary to Congress "did not fully capture" his 448-page report on the 2016 presidential elections, US media outlets reported Tuesday. In the letter and a subsequent phone call to Barr in late March, Mueller said the initial account of the his report in Barr's letter to Congress caused public confusion, local media quoted sources from the Justice Department and people familiar with the affair as saying. The special counsel suggested that Barr release the brief summary sections of the Mueller report. Mueller probed the alleged Russia meddling in the 2016 US elections and possible ties with President Donald Trump's campaign, and submitted a report to Barr in March. "The summary letter the (Justice) Department sent to Congress and released to the public late in the afternoon of March 24 did not fully capture the context, nature, and substance of this office's work and conclusions," Mueller wrote in his letter to Barr. "There is now public confusion about critical aspects of the results of our investigation. This threatens to undermine a central purpose for which the Department appointed the Special Counsel: to assure full public confidence in the outcome of the investigations," he said. Barr has testified to Congress previously that Mueller declined the opportunity to review his summary letter to lawmakers that distilled the essence of the special counsel's findings. Barr's letter to Congress said the Mueller investigation "did not establish that members of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities." It also said the special counsel's investigation "did not draw a conclusion - one way or the other - as to whether the examined conduct constituted obstruction." Jerry Nadler, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said in a statement that he had demanded a copy of Mueller's letter by Wednesday morning. Barr is scheduled to testify about the investigation before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Wednesday and before the House Judiciary Committee on Thursday. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun