Promotional material for Rescued by a Coquette Photo: Courtesy of Ivan Ruviditch

Trainees at the Shanghai Normal University International Theater Workshop rehearse in Shanghai. Photo: Courtesy of Ivan Ruviditch Having long been interested in classic Chinese literature, drama and theater, French sinologist Ivan Ruviditch was incredibly eager to enjoy traditional Chinese performances, like Kunqu opera, when he first went to Shanghai in the 1990s. Unfortunately, he found catching a show difficult since there weren't many performances at the time. After moving to Shanghai in 2007, he continued doing all he could to watch theater works, but things were still "like a desert." As the years passed, he moved from watching theater works to producing them.The first time he began to take part in a theatrical production was during the Expo 2010 held in Shanghai. According to Ruviditch, at the time the theater scene in the city was still undeveloped and lacked a certain level of professionalism. As such, the production caused him endless headaches, since the Chinese performers would often not show up for rehearsal without a word of warning and scheduled performance dates would change at the last minute.  Looking to change things, in 2015 he established an international theater workshop at Shanghai Normal University, where he teaches comparative literature. Over the years, things have changed immensely. Now, a large range of dramas can be found throughout Shanghai and the caliber of performers has improved. Local theater groups frequently team up with foreign partners in coproducing dramas. Audience attendance is up, but their familiarity with the medium and the increased competition from other troupes means drama producers have to work harder to capture people's attention.    The workshop has seen great success, with members performing Anton Chekhov's The Seagull and Norwegian drama The Returning/Winterreise. This year, his team decided to tackle zaju, a traditional type of Chinese opera that mainly tells comedic or happy tales through a combination of poetry and prose recitals, singing, dancing and mime. From May 8 to May 10, his team performed Yuan Dynasty (1279-1368) playwright Guan Hanqing's Rescued by a Coquette at the Shanghai Pudong New Stage theater.Staying loyal Although Ruviditch's team turned all the singing parts of the original into spoken dialogue and reworked the classic Chinese language used into modern Chinese, the play on the whole is very loyal to the original. Long Ping, the 31-year-old screenwriter and playwright who wrote the script for the modern adaptation, told the Global Times that when drama producers adapt classical works into modern plays, they tend to only keep some parts of the plot and use their own imagination to fill in the rest. "But what we did this time is to try and follow the spirit of the original and convey its ideas," Long explained.The play tells the story of Song Yinzhang, a prostitute who marries the rich but cruel Zhou She. After he mistreats her, Song's friend Zhao Pan'er, another prostitute, tricks Zhou into writing a divorce statement, thus freeing Song from her husband. According to Long, the reason that they stuck so close to the original work is that they felt it was still worthy of reflection by modern audiences. The great contrast between the sensible Zhao and the sentimental Song, leads audiences to think about the decision-making that goes into marriage. Another plus is that many of Guan's plays focus on the perspectives of women, such as this play in which a woman of low status defeats a rich and powerful man. "This echoes the emphasis on women's rights in our society today," said Long.Improving togetherThe play's hero Zhou is played by Dong Xiangyu, a 26-year-old amateur actor who has been taking courses in Ruviditch's workshop since 2015. Over the past four years, he has played several roles in the troupe's plays. For his day job, Dong is an executive producer for marketing videos, but drama is an important passion for him. He told the Global Times that he feels that attending the workshop has improved his acting a great deal. As a fan of drama, he enjoys the atmosphere in the workshop, where members are like old friends who learn and improve together. "When I decided to enroll in the workshop, I noticed that around 200 trainees wanted to join even though they wouldn't get paid for doing so. I realized then and there that they must be true fans of the performing arts," Dong told the Global Times.Liu Yutong, a second-year drama doctorate student, told the Global Times that performing in the workshop helped her decide her future career path. After graduation, she wants to be a drama researcher and producer. Ruviditch said that he feels his performers have reached the same levels as professionals as they train about 20 hours every week and often receive classes from veteran international performers. Ruviditch has great respect for Chinese culture. Long said that Ruviditch values and treats Chinese classical works more seriously than some of the Chinese directors he has worked with. "I think the ancient intellects are super talented and their works are certainly worthy to be heard," Ruviditch said.Newspaper headline: Dramatic evolution Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth