The mother of the Chinese student who paid $6.5 million allegedly to help to get her daughter into Stanford University said that she was misled into thinking that the family donated to the university through an education consultant. The mother of Zhao Yusi, the student, said that "she has been misled, her generosity has been taken advantage of, and her daughter has fallen victim to the scam," in a statement sent to the Global Times through Vincent W C Law, a partner at law firm Mayer Brown in Hong Kong on Friday.The mother was identified only as Mrs. Zhao in the statement."There is no further information to provide other than the statement," Law told the Global Times.The statement from the law firm did not provide information about the daughter and father. According to media reports, Zhao Yusi's father, Zhao Tao, is the chairman of Shandong Buchang Pharmaceuticals, a supplier of traditional Chinese medicine to fight cardiovascular disease. Zhao Tao, 53, born in Xi'an, Northwest China's Shaanxi Province, is a citizen of Singapore reportedly worth $1.8 billion, Forbes reported.Zhao Tao said on Friday his daughter’s studies in the US are a personal matter and she didn't receive any funds from the company. As a listed company, Buchang’s operations are independent and will not be influenced by personal matters, he said in a statement from the law firm from the law firm on the company’s website.Wang Lu, a Buchang employee based in East China's Shandong Province, told the Global Times on Friday that if the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), where Buchang was listed in 2016, asks the company about the event, they will report it to the SSE. So far, the SSE has not asked the company about the matter.The statement from the law firm said Zhao Yusi's mother sought assistance for her daughter through recommendations from third parties, and consulted education advisors as she was not familiar with the college admissions process. One of the education advisors consulted was William "Rick" Singer. Zhao received an offer from Stanford on March 31, 2017. Afterwards, Singer asked Zhao's mother to make a donation to Stanford through his foundation for "the salaries of academic staff, scholarships and athletics programs, and to help students who otherwise will not be able to afford Stanford."Zhao's mother then donated $6.5 million to Singer's foundation on April 21, 2017. However, the mother said she felt misled."Both Mrs. Zhao and Yusi have been shocked and deeply disturbed by what has transpired, and have engaged attorneys to handle the matter," the statement said.CNN reported on Thursday that Singer was  the owner of college counseling and prep business The Key and the CEO of the Key Worldwide Foundation. Singer allegedly facilitated cheating in tests and bribing college coaches and administrators during admissions.Singer was paid about $25 million by parents as part of the scheme, said Andrew Lelling, the US attorney for Massachusetts, CNN reported. "Some of that money was then used to pay test administrators or coaches as part of the scheme," prosecutors said. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun