A total of 18 cooperation agreements and memorandums of understanding (MOUs) were signed between China's southwestern province of Sichuan and Israel in the Israeli central city of Tel Aviv on Monday. Delegates from the Sichuan provincial government, research and education institutions and companies signed these agreements and MoUs with Israeli partners at the China (Sichuan)-Israel Science, Technology and Trade Conference. The value of the agreements signed in the sectors of economy, trade, and investment surpassed 350 million US dollars. Practical cooperation between the two sides has been conducted in sectors of science, technology, economy, trade, education and culture with fruitful achievements in recent years, said Peng Qinghua, secretary of the Sichuan Provincial Committee of the Communist Party of China. Peng believed there is a great potential for both sides to further deepen innovation cooperation in the future. Sichuan is Israel's important cooperative partner, said Amiram Appelbaum, chief scientist of Israeli Ministry of Economy and Industry and chairman of Israel Innovation Authority. Both sides have great potentials to conduct innovation cooperation in sectors of modern agriculture, electronic information, medical health and clean energy, Appelbaum added. The conference provided a good chance for Israel to further learn Sichuan and the cooperation opportunities, Chinese Ambassador to Israel Zhan Yongxin said. Sichuan is strong in economy and rich in technological innovation resources and both sides have huge cooperation potentials, Zhan added. The conference was jointly hosted by the Sichuan provincial government, the Chinese Embassy in Israel, Israeli Ministry of Economy and Industry and Israel Innovation Authority. About 300 delegates from China and Israel attended the conference. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star