Indian director-actor Amir Khan and Chinese actress Zhang Ziyi at the red carpet on Thursday. Photo: Li Hao/GTIndian director-actor Amir Khan said Chinese people have a "really rare quality," which is open-mindedness, and "there is so much love in their heart."The Indian superstar made the remarks to the media on the sidelines of the Thursday night event, part of the ongoing Asian Film and TV Week. The Asian Film and TV Week, as part of the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations, is being held from Thursday to May 23 in China.Themed "Promoting mutual learning and exchanges among Asian civilizations through Film and TV," the Asian Film and TV Week features the launch ceremony, Masters in Conversation, Asian Film Week 2019 and Broadcasting of TV Programs, organizers said.A total of 60 Asian films from 30 Asian countries will be shown in the Chinese cities of Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu, Xi'an and Guangzhou.Film specialists from China, Japan, India, Vietnam and other Asian countries are expected to discuss the role and significance of Asian films in cultural inheritance, mutual learning among civilizations and bonding between peoples, the organizers said."You see world cinema and films from other cultures. They get to be seen in all countries. But there is a very small audience for that. Even in India, we have audiences who watch world cinema, but it is a very small audience, not everybody watches world cinema. They don't watch world cinema; they only watch Indian films," Khan said."However in China, I noticed that a large audience watches Indian films and that shows Chinese audiences are very open to different cultures, and stories and characters from different places. That is such a beautiful quality that Chinese people have. It is a very rare quality. It is the quality we should learn from. I think that we have a lot to learn from China and from the people of China. And there is so much love in their heart," he told the media. Khan also expressed his willingness to take films from China to India, "so that Indian people can also see films from China and get to know the stories of the people of China and their culture." That will really bring Indian and Chinese audiences together, he noted.Newspaper headline: Chinese viewers ‘open-minded’ Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starUnrealistic expectations thwart Chinese job recruitersDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los Angeles