Danish director Bille August Photo: Li Hao/ GTCalm, gentle and genuine… this was my first impression of Danish director Bille August. I couldn't find a trace arrogance in the 1987 Academy Award and two-time Cannes Palme d'Or winner, instead he was easy-going and more than willing to talk about his experiences in the film industry. Despite having achieved worldwide  success, August has not rested on his laurels. He has, however, shifted his sights in recent years from the West to the East. He was a member of the jury for the 11th Shanghai International Film Festival (SIFF) in 2008 and the president of the jury for the 7th Beijing International Film Festival (BJIFF) in 2017. Shot in 2015, his first Chinese film, The Chinese Widow, released in the Chinese mainland in 2017. Two years later, his latest film, A Fortunate Man, won Best Feature Film at the 9th BJIFF.On April 26, I sat down with August to talk about his film career. If one were to use the titles of his films to describe the 71- year-old, I think nothing would be more appropriate than A Fortunate Man (2018) and Pelle the Conqueror (1987).  Mr. Curiosity According to August, inspiration and worthwhile life experiences can be found everywhere.  "Since I was a child, I was very observant. I always collect different situations between people and write all those stories down…seeing people in different situations and then making continuity in those situations," August said."For me the true drama has to do with interaction between human beings. What I am trying to create is this kind of drama that can tell the audience something about who we are, where we come from," said August. This curiosity has led him to always want to try something new.  "I am really wary of repeating myself, it is boring," said August. "Once I've done a film, I feel I have to go to the next step. I have so many stories and themes that I still want to do."His curiosity finally led him to China, where he became fascinated with Chinese culture. According to August, the idea of making The Chinese Widow was proposed by a Chinese producer around six years ago.  However, curiosity and exploration does not always bring success. Although the film premiered as the opening film at the 20th Shanghai International Film Festival in 2017, it failed to win the hearts of Chinese audiences. The film only received a score of 6.0/10 on Chinese review platform Douban and 29.46 million yuan ($4.34 million) at the box office, according to Chinese ticketing platform Maoyan. Despite the film's lackluster performance, making a film in China was still an unforgettable experience for the director. "It was a great experience working with a Chinese crew, especially working with Chinese actors. There are so many great actors in China, so I really want to do it again," August said.  Selfie generationTwo years after The Chinese Widow's debut, August's A Fortunate Man claimed as the Best Feature Film at April's BJIFF. However, for the Oscar-level director, the best award was that people enjoyed his work. "I am fortunate to have a job telling stories," said August. "Knowing that the camera is watching you and knowing that eventually the audience will sit in the cinema, that is magic for me."As a director, August is careful in choosing his actors, often staying away from the glitz of Hollywood. The two protagonists of A Fortunate Man were not played by professional actors. August said he choose them because of their "innocence in the camera.""The worst thing is if you have vain actors," said August."I've met actors in America, and I could just feel they have the wrong attitude to the story. It is about the story, not ego.""A lot of American movie stars have become a brand. They are not actors anymore, they are just protecting their image and brand… And they just do what they think their fans would like him to do, but it has nothing to do with stories."His worries have expanded to the younger generation, which he calls "the selfie generation." This self absorption is a theme in A Fortunate Man.   "Per [the main protagonist] is a modern character in the sense of the young generation," August explained. "It is all about social media and self-expression, and stimulating your ego at the time… Per pays for a high price for being self-centered in the very end, we don't know what the prices are for young people being so self-centered, and I am worried about that." Yet, he still believes that the younger generation represented by Per are living in a era with many options in life. "When I made my first film more than 40 years ago, it was very expensive to make films. And the cameras were heavy... There were so many challenges that I got lost.""[Nowadays] everybody has a smartphone, everybody has a laptop, and everybody can be their own director… that is amazing. Of course, to make a big budget film is a different story, but at least nowadays you can practice with your smart phone."Overall, August is grateful for where he is."I am a fortunate man… I have my private life, I can do what I want and I've been able to protect my integrity and my skills."Newspaper headline: A fortunate director Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun