South Africa's ruling African National Congress (ANC) has won the national election by winning 57.51 percent of the votes, the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) announced on Saturday evening. The official results showed that opposition party Democratic Alliance (DA) came second with 20.76 percent while the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) won 10.79 percent. IEC Chairperson Glen Mashinini said that despite the record number of political parties that contested in the elections, only 14 parties would make into parliament. The ANC would return to the National Assembly with 230 seats, DA with 84 and EFF with 44 seats. The IEC said 97 percent of sample voters found the elections free and fair while 97 percent found the voting process easy. The IEC's Chief Electoral Officer Sy Mamabolo said that South Africa's sixth democratic election were the most complex, highly contested one. "We've come through these elections as a stronger institution, a stronger country," he said. President Cyril Ramaphosa commended the over 17 million voters who cast their ballots during elections, saying their votes were for an equal society, free of socio-economic problems. "They have voted for a country at peace with itself and the world. They have voted for a more equal society, free from poverty, hunger and want," he said. While there was a drop in the number of young people voting in these elections, he commended first time voters and their enthusiasm showing on social media. "We applaud young people especially first time voters who participated and took responsibility for their future and our country," the president said. Ramaphosa also commended the role of the IEC officials, and local and international observers in the elections, adding that the election confirmed that "freedom does reign" in the country. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth