Shen Haixiong (left), president of CMG, and Ying Yong, deputy secretary of the CPC Shanghai Committee and the mayor of Shanghai, inaugurate the media application laboratory of CMG in Shanghai on Sunday. Photo: Courtesy of CMG The state-media conglomerate China Media Group (CMG) inaugurated on Sunday its 5G, 4K, and AI all-in-one media application laboratory in Shanghai and announced it will start filming a six-episode 4K ultra high definition documentary about the development and opening-up of Shanghai Pudong New Area over the past three decades. Shen Haixiong, president of CMG, addressed the inauguration ceremony and pointed out that since the merger of China Central Television (CCTV), China National Radio (CNR) and China Radio International (CRI), CMG has set the "5G+4K+AI" strategy as a new engine for the development of the station. He added that Shanghai's technological innovation, software and hardware environment, and first-class education and scientific research resources will greatly boost the high-quality development of radio and television media. Shen remarked that Pudong's development over the past three decades represents the impact of reform and opening-up, a pioneering and innovation spirit, remarkable achievements and the future of national rejuvenation. "The purpose of this documentary is to review the region's glorious history and to give an in-depth interpretation of its pioneering role in reform and opening-up," Shen said. Ying Yong, deputy secretary of the CPC Shanghai Committee and mayor of Shanghai, addressed the ceremony, saying that it is of special significance for CMG to set up its 5G, 4K and AI media laboratory in Shanghai and to film the 4K documentary. They are important measures to promote the integration and development of media by applying the achievements of the information revolution, and strongly support the development of Shanghai as an international cultural metropolis. The six-episode documentary tells vivid stories about the development and opening-up of Shanghai Pudong New Area and is due to be broadcast in April 2020 to mark the 30th anniversary of the development and opening-up of Pudong.There used to be a well-known saying about Shanghai's Puxi, west of the Huangpu River, and Pudong districts: "I would rather have a bed in Puxi than a room in Pudong." It described the huge difference and disparity between Puxi and Pudong in the past in the minds of Shanghai residents. However, the once desolate farmland of Pudong has now become a picturesque urban center with a futuristic skyline and numerous skyscrapers. Apart from CMG and local government officials, several witnesses to the development of Pudong shared their experiences. Shen Ruqun, an 88-year-old Pudong resident, presented the first map of Pudong at the ceremony. Between 1992 and 2007, Shen participated in drawing 15 maps of Pudong by measuring the land with his own footsteps. Another resident named Yao Jianliang presented a photo album of pictures that he took showing the development of Pudong over the past 30 years. Several representatives from Fortune 500 enterprises such as Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Mizuho Bank, SAIC-GM, Microsoft Asia-Pacific R&D Group and Shanghai Disney Resort, which have witnessed the development of Pudong, attended the event and shared their companies' stories about Pudong's development with the audience. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun