The China-US strategic game has begun to influence the overall situation. Accelerating the pace of unlocking China's economic potential is the key to restraining US arrogance towards China in the long-term.In the past year, the US has posed more serious challenges to China's national security and development than China has experienced over the past years.Unleashing its potential to develop can generate more positive influence on China's domestic governance, further supporting China's national security in its competition with the US. From such a perspective, we will have new findings. For example, high-quality development may have a richer meaning than what we previously understood. It can support the stability of China's international strategic game and allow China to weather all-round provocations from the US.Some believe the time for China's rapid economic growth has gone and economic slowdown will be the general trend. If the Chinese people believe this and regard the slowing economy as the basis for future policies, China may fall into passivity.China has to keep the strongest developing momentum in the world when it comes to composite indicators. We need to take every possible means to maintain China's development posture, lest the rest of the world assume China's development has run out steam.It will not be easy to sustain the high-paced growth that China has already reached, but we believe China's sustained and rapid development has broad space in the foreseeable future.For example, the Chinese people are aware that technological innovation can produce new growth. It is unrealistic for every city to establish a research and development center that can have nationwide influence. Most of the economic activities in all societies are about ordinary people's well-being. All regions in China need to tap the potential in developing the local economy and creating more resources for the public's welfare. Counties and cities at the grassroots-level should be encouraged to think outside the box and explore new models for development without relying too much on infrastructure construction.As long as all regions prioritize economic work and recognize its political significance, new breakthroughs will be achieved. China is the most populous country in the world. The Chinese people's per capita income is much higher than Indians'. China's economic potential is far greater than that of the US, the largest economy. There is no doubt that China's economic prospects are the best in the world. These facts drive China's core competitiveness. They will make Washington feel its ability falls short of its wishes when it comes to containing Beijing. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star