Japan's Emperor Naruhito declared his succession to the Chrysanthemum Throne on Wednesday to mark the start of a new imperial era in Japan. "I have hereby succeeded to the throne pursuant to the Constitution of Japan and the Special Measures Law on the Imperial House Law," the emperor said in his declaration. "When I think about the important responsibility I have assumed, I am filled with a sense of solemnity," he said. "I will act according to the Constitution and fulfill my responsibility as the symbol of the state and of the unity of the people of Japan, while always turning my thoughts to the people and standing with them," he said. "I sincerely pray for the happiness of the people and the further development of the nation as well as the peace of the world," the emperor added. In a ceremony called "Kenji to Shokei no gi" held earlier in the morning, the 59-year-old emperor, dressed in a formal black suit, inherited the imperial regalia as proof of his ascension to the throne. The regalia, known as "Sanshu no Jingi," constitutes the sacred mirror, sword and jewel. In the ritual, the new monarch received the jewel and a replica of the sword, along with the state and privy seals. At the same time, an aide of the emperor was slated to visit a shrine inside the Imperial Palace where a replica mirror is kept. According to local media reports, the original mirror is kept at Ise Jingu, a Shinto shrine in Mie Prefecture in central Japan, and the original sword at Atsuta Jingu in Nagoya in Aichi Prefecture. Former Emperor Akihito, 85, in his final speech as a monarch on Tuesday declared his abdication and said he sincerely hoped for a stable future for Japan and peace and happiness around the world. In a rare video message broadcast in 2016, the former emperor expressed his desire to step down, saying he was concerned that owing to his age, he might not be able to fulfill his official duties. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun