Editor's Note:The Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations (CDAC) is attracting attention worldwide as topics such as the theory of the clash of civilizations have spurred serious discussions during side events. Global Times reporters Wang Wenwen, Zhao Yusha and Zhang Ao interviewed CDAC delegates to get their ideas on the issues and how the conference, which started Wednesday in Beijing, will help promote mutual understanding and knowledge sharing. 

U Ko Ko HlaingU Ko Ko Hlaing, Co-founder of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, MyanmarAsia has been a model of the peaceful existence of all civilizations for a long time. Chinese civilizations are the oldest civilizations in the world that have consistently existed. At present for China as a global political and economic power, it's a right choice and right occasions to hold such a conference for more mutual understanding and sharing knowledge.Now China is initiating the economic and infrastructure cooperation projects like the Belt and Road Initiative. It will connect already-existing civilizations and nations around the continent. The initiative can contribute to the Asian region as well as all human kind on the planet. The "Asia of common prosperity" mentioned by President Xi are not such strange words. Xi mentioned it very sincerely, because co-prosperity is also very important to the interests of China. Now China has good sources of financing and industrial production power, and is sharing the financial and technical power with other developing countries. China can also have a good chance to expand its market. So that's actually mutual development and prosperity that make a better future for the whole of mankind, especially for the people in the region. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starUnrealistic expectations thwart Chinese job recruitersDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los Angeles