Wu Xiaoqiu, vice president of China's Renmin University, gives a speech at the forum. Photo: Courtesy of CFLD Gu'an, a county in North China's Hebei Province that's fairly close to Beijing's new mega-airport, unveiled plans for a science and technology innovation valley on Friday, envisioning riding the wave of the next big thing in China's capital market reform. The county's hub and the Beijing Daxing International Airport are only 10 kilometers apart, and are set to join hands with Shanghai-listed China Fortune Land Development (CFLD), a major Chinese industrial park operator, to build the Beijing South Science and Technology Innovation Valley. Occupying an area of 6.4 square kilometers, the innovation valley is intended to incubate businesses that will float on the new science and technology board, according to the plans revealed Friday by the Science and Technology Innovation Board at the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Forum. Plans to recommend IPOs by a batch of companies located in the valley that qualify for the new board over the short term are on the innovation valley's agenda. The valley also aims to attract companies based in Beijing and its neighboring regions that have potential to file for an IPO on the new board to settle in Gu'an over the medium term. In the long run, the valley would incubate startups with core technologies and intellectual properties, which are expected to float on the new board within five to 10 years. The valley also has plans to create service platforms to serve the needs of businesses in the fields of technology development, financing, and pre-IPO preparation. Speaking at the forum, Tang Liang, CEO of Beijing-based startup incubator Techcode, commented that Gu'an has gotten off to a good start on the innovation drive, in terms of the availability of key innovation elements including financial, talent and technology transfer platforms.Among efforts to create conditions for businesses to invest in the county are wide-ranging policy support and the setup of eight industry funds to the tune of 20 billion yuan ($2.89 billion), Sun Lina, county head of Gu'an, said during the forum while expressing optimism about the future of the county which she believes is aligned with the future of the Science and Technology Innovation Board. The new board in Shanghai, which will pilot a registration-based IPO, was first proposed in November 2018. Draft rules for operating the new board were issued in late January, highlighting an array of innovative arrangements to underpin the country's stock market reforms.The new board, a complete mindset update, is strategically important to China's capital market and supply-side reforms of its financial sector, Wu Xiaoqiu, vice president of China's Renmin University, stated at the forum.Rules and regulations governing listing requirements, information disclosure, pricing mechanism and delisting need to be fine-tuned to adapt to the new board, he noted, adding that the cost of violating laws and regulations ought to be substantially increased to truly ensure the success of the new board. In less than two months, a batch of companies will be among the first to get listed on the new board, according to Gu Qiang, head of the Industry Research Institute under CFLD. That nonetheless indicates merely the beginning of the push for the new board, which needs to be complemented by efforts to ensure a continuation of stock listings by premium companies, said Gu. Gu also noted for that to happen, there needs to be basic research and advanced university education that can continuously generate scientific and innovative findings and continue with institutional innovations in capital market terms and innovative application scenarios that would enable a faster-paced translation of cutting-edge technologies into commercial realities for mass production. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star