A carbon dioxide leak that killed 10 people and injured another 19 in a cargo ship was caused by misconduct and suspects have been detained, authorities in East China's Shandong Province announced on Sunday.  The leak that occurred 4 pm Saturday during repairs at dock was caused by the ship's third mate, Weihai government announced on its Sina Weibo account on Sunday morning. The deadly leak from the ship's fire extinguisher system also hospitalized 19 people. All are in stable condition, the announcement said. The ship's owner, Fujian Shipping Company, has dispatched staff to the scene. Three doctors from a Beijing hospital went to Weihai Sunday morning to provide medical support, China Central Television reported.  A Weihai government official reached by the Global Times Sunday afternoon declined to provide information about the alleged misconduct or the amount of carbon dioxide leaked. "If the leakage amount on the ship was small, it is unlikely to cause serious damage to people outside the ship as the gas would quickly diffuse in the air," an expert from the Chinese Research Academy of Environmental Sciences in Beijing told the Global Times on condition of anonymity.People facing similar leaks indoors should try to stand up straight when they try to escape as carbon dioxide is heavier than oxygen and accumulates from the bottom, the expert said. Carbon dioxide is present in ordinary air at 0.03 percent. A concentration higher than 6 percent causes serious damage to human health or death from anoxia."There was no secondary disaster at the accident site so far," the government notice read. The ship, with a capacity of over 69,000 tons, was built in Japan in 1994 and is undergoing a special overhaul in five years, which lasts 22 days, according to a statement on the shipping company's website. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star