People look at the art installation "Silvertip Shark" during the exhibition "Washed Ashore: Art to Save the Sea" at the Toronto Zoo in Toronto, Canada, May 19, 2019. Kicked off over the weekend, the six-month-long unique exhibition was aimed at warning of the negative and devastating effects of plastic pollution, sparking positive changes in consumer habits. All the art installations were built completely with plastics collected from oceans and waterways around the world. (Xinhua/Zou Zheng)  

People look at the art installation "Poly the Polar Bear" during the exhibition "Washed Ashore: Art to Save the Sea" at the Toronto Zoo in Toronto, Canada, May 19, 2019. Kicked off over the weekend, the six-month-long unique exhibition was aimed at warning of the negative and devastating effects of plastic pollution, sparking positive changes in consumer habits. All the art installations were built completely with plastics collected from oceans and waterways around the world. (Xinhua/Zou Zheng)  

People look at the art installation "Flash the Marlin" during the exhibition "Washed Ashore: Art to Save the Sea" at the Toronto Zoo in Toronto, Canada, May 19, 2019. Kicked off over the weekend, the six-month-long unique exhibition was aimed at warning of the negative and devastating effects of plastic pollution, sparking positive changes in consumer habits. All the art installations were built completely with plastics collected from oceans and waterways around the world. (Xinhua/Zou Zheng)  

People look at the art installation "Triggerfish" during the exhibition "Washed Ashore: Art to Save the Sea" at the Toronto Zoo in Toronto, Canada, May 19, 2019. Kicked off over the weekend, the six-month-long unique exhibition was aimed at warning of the negative and devastating effects of plastic pollution, sparking positive changes in consumer habits. All the art installations were built completely with plastics collected from oceans and waterways around the world. (Xinhua/Zou Zheng) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star