Armed police in Shizuishan, Northwest China's Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, go on blind dates with single women from local companies and public institutes in January. Photo: VCG
Ninety percent of China's singles have been in love less than three times and a lack of experience of being in a relationship is possibly the main reason for young Chinese to stay single, a recent report revealed. 

Chinese matchmaking website zhenai.com released a report on Monday, which also revealed that nearly 70 percent of single people in the post-1990s generation in China had fallen in love less than twice.
The number of singles above 15 years old has reached 240 million, the Beijing Youth Daily reported after calculating figures released in an annual report by the National Bureau of Statistics in 2018.
"I could not find a boyfriend because I studied arts in high school and college, and there were only a few men around me. Now, I am too busy working," Liu Zhiying, a 25-year-old primary school teacher in Beijing, told the Global Times on Monday.
Cao Han, a single financial analyst of Citic Securities, told the Global Times on Monday that he does not plan to start a relationship now because he has to travel a lot due to work, which makes it difficult to maintain a stable relationship. 
 The report noted a tendency of younger people in the blind date market. It said that 38 percent of singles went on a blind date below the age of 23 for the first time.
On average, single people can find lovers within five times of blind dates. And more than 60 percent of them said that they could marry someone after dating that person for more than five months, the report said. 
"I agreed to go on a blind date because the conditions of both sides families can be known and I do not need to fear being deceived by the man," Han Rui, a 20-year-old college student in Southwest China's Yunnan Province who once went on a blind date, told the Global Times. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star