A prison official (R) talks to media outside a prison in Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia, May 3, 2019. Doan Thi Huong, a Vietnamese woman, was released early on Friday after serving time for her involvement in causing the death of a man from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) at a Malaysian airport in 2017. The 30-year old, along with Indonesian national Siti Aisyah, were accused for killing the DPRK man by smearing VX nerve agent on the man's face at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in February 2017. Both denied the murder charge. (Xinhua/Chong Voon Chung)Doan Thi Huong, a Vietnamese woman, was released early on Friday after serving time for her involvement in causing the death of a man from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) at a Malaysian airport in 2017. Huong was discharged from prison and was escorted by Malaysian Immigration Department as part of the final procedures to be sent back to her home country. Her lead counsel Hisyam Teh Poh Teik confirmed her release. "Yes released at about 7.20 a.m.," he said. A Vietnamese embassy car was sighted following a vehicle believed to carrying Doan out of the prison's main entrance. The 30-year old, along with Indonesian national Siti Aisyah, were accused for killing the DPRK man by smearing VX nerve agent on the man's face at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in February 2017. Both denied the murder charge. In March, Malaysian prosecutors withdrew the murder charge against Siti Aisyah before releasing her. Huong's application to have her murder charge dropped was rejected by the attorney-general. In April, prosecutors offered Huong an alternative charge for "voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means," which she pleaded guilty to. She was sentenced to 3 years and 4 months with two years already served since her arrest on Feb. 15, 2017 and the remaining one-third granted remission. 

Security staff members stand guard outside a prison in Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia, May 3, 2019. Doan Thi Huong, a Vietnamese woman, was released early on Friday after serving time for her involvement in causing the death of a man from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) at a Malaysian airport in 2017. The 30-year old, along with Indonesian national Siti Aisyah, were accused for killing the DPRK man by smearing VX nerve agent on the man's face at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in February 2017. Both denied the murder charge. (Xinhua/Chong Voon Chung)

A security staff member stands outside a prison and gestures in Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia, May 3, 2019. Doan Thi Huong, a Vietnamese woman, was released early on Friday after serving time for her involvement in causing the death of a man from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) at a Malaysian airport in 2017. The 30-year old, along with Indonesian national Siti Aisyah, were accused for killing the DPRK man by smearing VX nerve agent on the man's face at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in February 2017. Both denied the murder charge. (Xinhua/Chong Voon Chung)

Photo taken on May 3, 2019 shows the entrance of a prison in Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia. Doan Thi Huong, a Vietnamese woman, was released early on Friday after serving time for her involvement in causing the death of a man from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) at a Malaysian airport in 2017. The 30-year old, along with Indonesian national Siti Aisyah, were accused for killing the DPRK man by smearing VX nerve agent on the man's face at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in February 2017. Both denied the murder charge. (Xinhua/Chong Voon Chung)  

A car of Vietnamese embassy leaves a prison in Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia, May 3, 2019. Doan Thi Huong, a Vietnamese woman, was released early on Friday after serving time for her involvement in causing the death of a man from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) at a Malaysian airport in 2017. The 30-year old, along with Indonesian national Siti Aisyah, were accused for killing the DPRK man by smearing VX nerve agent on the man's face at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in February 2017. Both denied the murder charge. (Xinhua/Chong Voon Chung) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun