People attend a tourism promotion event featuring China's Mount Huangshan at the UN headquarters in New York, on May 3, 2019. China's Mount Huangshan, also known as Yellow Mountain, was promoted Friday at the United Nations headquarters in New York, as part of its efforts to work its way into the international market. (Photo: Xinhua)China's Mount Huangshan, also known as Yellow Mountain, was promoted Friday at the United Nations headquarters in New York, as part of its efforts to work its way into the international market. "The photographs on display at the presentation, whether they are landscapes, architecture, or the humanities, are very beautiful and we enjoyed them very much," Susan Lacerte, executive director of Queens Botanical Garden, told Xinhua at a promotion event. Besides the display of pictures, the event also featured videos showcasing the scenery and ethnic culture of China and Mount Huangshan, as well as artistic performances. Some 150 people from government agencies, as well as tourism and aviation industries of both China and the United States, attended the event. While addressing the event, Deputy Chinese Consul General in New York Qian Jin said tourism is a "bridge of friendship" and culture a "link of exchanges," and the two in combination is an effective channel for deepening understanding between the two peoples. This promotion event showcased China's most representative landscapes and would help build a "bridge of friendship" between China and the United States, he said. Mayor of Huangshan City Kong Xiaohong gave an introduction of the ecological, natural, cultural and tourist resources of the mountain at the event. 

A woman performs tea art during a tourism promotion event featuring China's Mount Huangshan at the UN headquarters in New York, on May 3, 2019. China's Mount Huangshan, also known as Yellow Mountain, was promoted Friday at the United Nations headquarters in New York, as part of its efforts to work its way into the international market. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Deputy Chinese Consul General in New York Qian Jin addresses a tourism promotion event featuring China's Mount Huangshan at the UN headquarters in New York, on May 3, 2019. China's Mount Huangshan, also known as Yellow Mountain, was promoted Friday at the United Nations headquarters in New York, as part of its efforts to work its way into the international market. (Photo: Xinhua)  

Mayor of Huangshan City Kong Xiaohong addresses a tourism promotion event featuring China's Mount Huangshan at the UN headquarters in New York, on May 3, 2019. China's Mount Huangshan, also known as Yellow Mountain, was promoted Friday at the United Nations headquarters in New York, as part of its efforts to work its way into the international market. (Photo: Xinhua)  

People watch a photo exhibition during a tourism promotion event featuring China's Mount Huangshan at the UN headquarters in New York, on May 3, 2019. China's Mount Huangshan, also known as Yellow Mountain, was promoted Friday at the United Nations headquarters in New York, as part of its efforts to work its way into the international market. (Photo: Xinhua) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun