A student at a Zhejiang university reads novels on her phone in April. Photo: ICAuthorities in Liuzhou, South China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region ordered a local high school to investigate media reports that the school allegedly peddled a mobile phone to "supervise" students' time arrangements and surfing history. With the blessings of the vice principal of Liuzhou High School, a company (not named) spent five minutes to introduce its "customized phone" to parents on Saturday, the Liuzhou education authority said on Monday.The response came after news of this phone sparked uproar on the internet. The new mobile phone, which costs 2,499 yuan ($372), can be "locked automatically" to avoid excessive use by students, and record students' behavior when they use mobile phones to break the rules. The phone can also filter 500 million pieces of information on violence and pornography, the Beijing Youth Daily quoted the school as saying on Monday. The phone can also notify students about the school's announcements. When contacted by the Global Times, a teacher from Liuzhou High School, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the school strictly manages students' use of mobile phones. In April, the school issued a notice to manage the use of mobile phones on campus, which prohibits students from using mobile phones except in the school canteen and dormitory, the teacher said. "It is good that students can abstain from using mobile phones on campus. Mobile phones are harmful to students if they are not used sparingly," another anonymous member of staff told Global Times.  The Beijing Youth Daily quoted the school as saying that the management platform was developed by a Huawei research center in Wuhan, Central China's Hubei Province. Huawei denied this with the Global Times on Monday. This platform was developed by a Guangxi technology company upon the school's request. It was not developed by Huawei, and Huawei will hold relevant parties accountable for false advertising, Huawei said in a statement on Monday. The local education bureau said the school's behavior violates the rule that forbids advertisements and commercial activities from entering primary and secondary schools and kindergartens. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth