The bilateral trade volume between US and China dropped significantly in the first 4 months, reflecting a worsening trade ties between the world's two largest economies as Trump administration's reckless tariffs war drags on. From January to April, the trade between the two giants was 1.1 trillion yuan ($173 billion), accounting for 11.5 percent of China's gross foreign trade, down from 20 percent in 2017 prior to the two countries engaged in a tit-for-tat trade tussle last year, according to China's official data released Wednesday.If Trump administration makes true on his latest blatant threatening measure that he is to raise tariffs on $200 billion Chinese imports from 10 percent to 25 percent on Friday, the bilateral trade is poised to tumble further, Chinese experts say, inflicting deeper wounds on the two economies and claiming collateral damages on others. In April, China's exports denominated in US dollar terms shifted into reverse, signaling growing downward pressure amid rising uncertainties in world trade amid an ongoing trade conflict between Washington DC and Beijing.The figure was lower than market expectations as the General Administration of Customs (GAC) released a slew of trade figures on Wednesday. However, overall trade improved from figures recorded in the first quarter.In April, China's exports reached $193.49 billion, down 2.7 percent year-on-year, much lower than expected, GAC data showed.In yuan-denominated terms, China's trade volumes in goods in April stood at 2.51 trillion yuan ($370.8 billion), up 6.5 percent year-on-year, data showed. Exports grew at 3.1 percent to 1.3 trillion yuan and imports were up 10.3 percent to 1.21 trillion yuan. The April trade surplus shrank 43.8 percent year-on-year to 93.57 billion yuan.For the first four months of this year, overall trade grew 4.3 percent to 9.51 trillion yuan. The trade surplus in the first four months was 618.17 billion yuan, an increase of 31.8 percent over the same period of last year.In the first quarter, overall trade expanded 3.7 percent.Trade with the EU, China's largest trading partner, grew by 11.8 percent during the January-April period, while trade with members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) grew by 9 percent. The trade surplus with the EU and ASEAN expanded by 28.5 percent and 72.2 percent, respectively.  China's trade with countries and regions along the Belt and Road initiative (BRI) grew at two times the rate of overall trade growth during the January-April period.Trade with BRI markets totaled 2.73 trillion yuan, up 9.1 percent year-on-year. The growth was 4.8 percentage points higher than the overall trade growth in the period. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun