Chinese Premier Li Keqiang on Thursday underscored more targeted training services for workers in a bid to create a knowledge-based, skill-oriented and innovative workforce. The launch of large-scale vocational training is a key measure to improve people's employability and entrepreneurial ability, ease structural employment problems, and boost employment. It also bolsters the high-quality economic development, Li said in a written instruction to a teleconference on professional training. Li stressed good use of a 100-billion-yuan (about 14.8 billion US dollars) unemployment insurance fund and other training capital to train workforces. Authorities should provide more targeted training for on-post staff, workers rotating to other posts in struggling firms, key employment groups and poor laborers. Employees in high-risk industries should get more training in workplace safety techniques. Authorities should arouse the enthusiasm of enterprises, vocational schools and social training organizations to participate in training, strengthen supervision over training capital and improve fund utilization, to create a knowledge-based, skill-oriented and innovative workforce and promote healthy economic development and stable employment. Hu Chunhua, a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chief of the State Council employment work leading group, attended the conference and made a speech. Hu stressed on-the-job training, and said that training priority should be given to workers without skills or those lacking skills. He called for improved training content for different employment groups, and the acceleration of socialized and marketized vocational training assessment systems. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star