A screenshot of Liu Xin of China Global Television Network appearing on Trish Regan's show on Fox Business Network on Thursday morning Beijing time Photo: ICA widely anticipated debate between one of the most popular anchors in China and a star TV host in the US ended on Thursday morning, with many in China claiming that the Chinese anchor had won the debate, while others expressing disappointment that the event failed to meet high expectations that had been building for days.However, the exchange between Liu Xin of China Global Television Network (CGTN) and Trish Regan of the Fox Business Network in the US - widely described as a historical first between Chinese and US anchors - established a much-needed platform for the two countries to communicate more directly and effectively, analysts said.Falling days of hype, the showdown got off to a rough start, when Regan introduced Liu as a member of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and painted Liu as a spokesperson for the CPC. "I need to correct you," Liu responded, after thanking Regan for what she described as an "unprecedented" opportunity. "I'm not a member and I don't speak for the [CPC]… I'm only speaking for myself as Liu Xin, a journalist working for CGTN.""Just based on this exchange, the American lost the debate," a user on Sina Weibo wrote Thursday morning, noting that Regan's introduction demonstrated the prejudice and misunderstanding of many in the US toward China.That might have put Regan off her game, as she clearly had many questions regarding Liu's affiliation with the CPC, Liang Haiming, dean of Hainan University's Belt and Road Research Institute. "I am sure Trish had a whole bunch of questions linked to Liu as a [Party member] that she could not ask anymore," Liang told the Global Times on Thursday.Though the event had been widely described as a debate, the segment, which lasted around 17 minutes, was more of an interview in which Liu responded to questions from Regan about the China-US trade relations and China's economic system.Debate on trade While Liu largely stuck to her earlier position that unless the US treats China with respect in the ongoing talks, there could be "a prolonged period of problems for both sides," Regan appeared to have softened her position.The US anchor, who had earlier tried to justify the trade war the US administration has waged with little evidence, stressed that "trade wars are never good. They are not good for anyone."In another striking detail, Regan, who had said that China's theft of US intellectual property (IP) cost the US $600 billion annually, appeared very vague about the number, saying that there is evidence that China has stolen "enormous" amounts of IP from the US worth "hundreds of billions of dollars.""I guess we shouldn't really care if it's hundreds of billions of dollars or just fifty cents," she added.The whole episode started after Regan on her show earlier this month accused, without any concrete evidence, China of stealing from the US and claimed that the US had no choice but to wage war. It prompted a fierce rebuttal from Liu on her show, the Point with Liu Xin, where she accused the US anchor of being "emotional" and with "little substance."That back-and-forth between Liu, a star TV show host, and Regan, also a star anchor on one of the major TV networks in the US whose fans include US President Donald Trump, attracted global attention.In China, topics about the feud have garnered views and comments from tens of millions of internet users. Global media outlets have also covered the feud extensively. The sparring also comes as the US continues to escalate the trade war with China and employ state power to crack down on Chinese firm Huawei, angering many Chinese who believe the US is bullying China and trying to contain China's development.Many hoped Liu would convey that anger toward the US through the appearance. "Liu demonstrated that Chinese are 'soft' but not 'weak,'" Liang said. But the expectations were so high that many vented that the showdown was a disappointment. "It turned out to be just an interview. There was no splash at all. We might have made too much of a big deal of this," another user wrote on Sina Weibo.In stark contrast to their earlier head-to-head sparring online, both anchors were noticeably friendly, with pleasantries and smiles. The US anchor, in particular, had markedly toned down her previous tough appearance and made an effort to look friendly, smiling several times during the show.Meaningful dialogueNonetheless, analysts say, Liu's appearance on Regan's show took a very significant step and helped to set up a better platform for both sides to engage in meaningful discussions to resolve their differences and misunderstandings."In the end, Trish and Liu appeared to have developed a rapport. This is like in 1971, when the US ping-pong team was invited to China. No one remembers now who won the ping-pong matches. People only remember that the US team went to China," said Feng Da Hsuan, chief adviser of the China Silk Road iValley Research Institute and former vice president for research at the University of Texas at Dallas. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China-US TV anchors’ talk trumps tensions Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star