The simple pastime of rope skipping is taking the city of Hangzhou, East China's Zhejiang Province, by storm, with demand for classes far exceeding supply, the Qianjiang Evening News reported on Monday. Zhu Yawen, the manager of the flagship store of Ikidfit, a youth activity center in Hangzhou, is surprised by its popularity. "We used to have one class a week, but now four classes a week aren't enough. We have a maximum of eight to ten children in a class, but there is still strong demand for parents to put their children into the class," Zhu told the newspaper.In addition to these activity centers, the Hangzhou Rope Dancing and Skipping Club specializes in rope skipping training. The club was founded in 2017 and now has more than 200 members. "The classes are almost full on weeknights and weekends. Even five full-time coaches and four to five part-time coaches aren't enough," Huang Zhenlong told the Qiangjiang Evening News. The training mainly focuses on teaching the essentials of rope skipping and improving the speed. More than 20 students skip in a venue of 200 square meters at the same time. Coaches also provide home training for students who live far away, Huang explained.  Most of the students are kindergarteners who come to learn from scratch. These children are at a stage where they are about to enter primary schools, where rope skipping is an essential skill, Zhu explained. "It is necessary to pass the rope skipping test to be enrolled in private primary schools, and even public primary schools have such tests," Yang Yu (pseudonym) told the Qianjiang Evening News. In addition to the enrollment test of primary schools, parents also regard rope skipping as a good pastime for their children to lose weight and grow tall. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun