An interface of Tencent latest developed mini game Photo: Courtesy of Tencent Chinese internet giant Tencent Holdings has unveiled a new mini-game in collaboration with the Communist Youth League of China (CYLC) to memorialize the May Fourth Movement, reflecting the broader efforts of major domestic game developers to come up with content in line with mainstream social values, industry representatives said. Players overcome virtual obstacles and go back through history to experience major moments such as the patriotic May Fourth Movement in 1919, "Spring Story" marking the beginning of China's opening-up and reform, and so on, Tencent said in an email sent to the Global Times on Tuesday night. "It's not uncommon to have storytelling-style games, Tencent has come up with mini-games to pass on history and culture as well as inherit tradition," the company noted. Tencent stopped offering its trial version of hit game PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds on Wednesday. It launched a similar game named Game for Peace the same day.The company said the new game, which shows the emblem of the Pilot Selection Bureau of PLA Air Force (PSBPLAAF) at the log-in page, is an anti-terrorism genre that "shows respect to China's air force, which guards the country's territory." The new game has invited the PSBPLAAF for guidance. Some players said on China's social media platform that the game displays the combat ability of China's air force and delivers the right social values. "I'm proud to use 'weapons' developed by the Chinese air force, such as J-20 and J-10, playing the game," said Weibo user Vivia QIanqian."Tencent came up with the latest mini-game to respond to requests from regulators while helping its brand building. Like other arts, gaming is also part of culture and ideology," Wen Shijun, principal researcher of the cultural and media industry in the Research and Development Center under Cinda Securities, told the Global Times on Wednesday. For example, many high-level games developed by foreign companies embody their own values and even political tendencies, he said. Problems inside China's online gaming industry include a lack of originality, culture, and social responsibility, as well as a misdirection of values, Feng Shixin, vice director of the Publicity Department of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, told an industry conference in December 2018, media reports said. The official also urged Chinese developers to come up with games with Chinese styles and manners that represent the country's new era. To celebrate the 40th anniversary of China's reform and opening-up, Tencent previously launched a mini-game called Go Go Ball. By dodging obstacles on a virtual road, players could unfold different stories related with China's opening-up history. "By presenting old pictures on the screen, the game tells stories over the past 40 years in order to help players experience China's economic miracle, confidence, strength and future," the company said.Newspaper headline: Tencent game in line with values Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun