Chinese tech giant Huawei unveiled its open platform Huawei Ability Gallery at the ongoing Viva Technology 2019 trade fair here on Friday. On the first Developer Day during the three-day fair, the Chinese company showcased its vision of the future and the unstoppable growth of consumer services built jointly with developers. Huawei Ability Gallery, a platform enabling developer services to be seamlessly integrated into the Huawei ecosystem, brings a series of cutting edge and intelligent applications to over 500 million Huawei customers in over 170 countries and regions, including more than 38 million in Europe. "We provide a global intelligent distribution platform with a range of open capabilities and one-stop services for partners to foster innovation," said Jervis Su, vice president of mobile services at Huawei Consumer Business Group. Ability Gallery is a service distribution platform that works with Huawei's market leading artificial intelligence (AI) technology capable of intelligently understanding a user's preferences and seamlessly connecting them with a portfolio of services in the Ability Gallery personalized to them. Once integrated, developers' services can reach multiple touch points across Huawei's intelligent devices and a global audience, helping them achieve their own growth goals at a lower integration cost. Huawei Ability Gallery "welcomes all partners who share our ambition to provide best-in-class content and services to over 500 million Huawei users," said Ma Chuanyong, director of AI business at Huawei Consumer Business Group. According to Huawei, over 600 partners have already joined Huawei Ability Gallery, developing more than 3,500 intelligent services for the platform. Huawei offers a full-range apps distribution solution to developers, such as Out-of-Box Experience, AppGallery and AppAdvisor, covering the entire application experience life cycle and supporting the story-telling of each unique content provider to a broad user group. Huawei Ability Gallery will be adapted to more of the company's device portfolio, including tablets and watches, in the near future. "We are looking forward to working with our premium partners to provide best-in-class content and services to our users," Su noted. VivaTech is the world's rendezvous for startups and leaders to celebrate innovation and the power of technology in transforming business and society. The fiar lasts until Saturday. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starUnrealistic expectations thwart Chinese job recruitersDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los Angeles