Gatorade's G-Lab is presented for the first time as a mobile sports laboratory. 

Gatorade's G-Lab is presented for the first time as a mobile sports laboratory. Photos: Courtesy of Gatorade PepsiCo's sports drink brand Gatorade announced a strategic partnership in China with Jr. NBA, the youth basketball participation program of the NBA, during a press conference at the world's first NBA Center in Wuqing district, Tianjin on Thursday. The partnership aims at boosting the development of campus basketball activities and health education for children. Both sides also unveiled G-Lab, Gatorade's sports laboratory, which has established itself in China for the first time.Representatives of NBA China and Gatorade, and all the athletes and coaches who participated in the Jr. NBA Global Championship China Regional Finals attended the event.Throughout the cooperation period, both sides will be dedicated to promoting basketball activities on domestic campuses, and look for young basketball stars as well as help young Chinese basketball players to participate in global tournaments. Gatorade will provide special-edition sports drinks for Jr. NBA and officially bring G-Lab to China. Originated in the US, G-Lab provides professional services, such as testing professional athletes and monitoring athletes' consumption and health. It will appear for the first time in China in the form of a mobile sports laboratory, providing a sweat test and accurate advice for fitness supplies anytime and anywhere, and enable young players to have the same professional support as the top sports stars.For more than 50 years, Gatorade has been providing sports supplements and support to all athletes with sports nutrition products and professional equipment to help them enhance their performance. This strategic partnership demonstrates Gatorade's commitment to the development of basketball and youth sports in China. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth