US President Donald Trump said Sunday that special counsel Robert Mueller should not testify before Congress, after it was reported that the House of Representatives has sent out an invitation. "Bob Mueller should not testify. No redos for the Dems!" Trump said in a multi-part tweet. "Are they looking for a redo because they hated seeing the strong NO COLLUSION conclusion?" Trump said in the strong-worded tweet, which also lamented the two-year-long Russia probe that was headed by Mueller and had cost 35 million dollars. Trump's remarks came after it was reported earlier in the day that the House Judiciary Committee is proposing for Mueller to testify regarding his 448-page-long report on collusion and obstruction of justice allegations. "We are aiming to bring Mueller in on the 15th, but nothing has been agreed to yet. That's the date the Committee has proposed, and we hope the special counsel will agree to it," David Cicilline, member of the House Judiciary Committee said in a tweet. A previous hearing in which US Attorney General William Barr testified did not satisfy Democrats, with some Democratic lawmakers accusing Barr of lying to Congress. The dissatisfaction toward Barr can be traced to a four-page summary Barr released soon after receiving the Mueller report, which said the report had determined that there had been no collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign, and that there was insufficient proof for obstruction charges. It was reported that Mueller took issue with the summary, telling Barr in a letter that the report "did not fully capture the context, nature, and substance." A few days ago, White House senior adviser Kellyanne Conway told reporters that Mueller should testify "if he wants to." Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun