Peng Liyuan, wife of Chinese President Xi Jinping, meets with a group of international graduate students from China Women's University (CWU) at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, May 30, 2019. The students are from CWU's International Master's Program of Social Work in "Women's Leadership and Social Development," established to implement initiatives announced by President Xi at the 2015 Global Leaders' Meeting on Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment. So far, 72 female students from 27 countries have studied under the program. (Xinhua/Pang Xinglei)Peng Liyuan, wife of Chinese President Xi Jinping, on Thursday met with a group of international graduate students from China Women's University (CWU). Peng and the students watched a short film on their study and life in China. She also watched poetry recital, chorus and dancing performed by the students. As the students are about to finish the study and return to their home countries, Peng said she believes that studying in China had helped them deepen their understanding of the country. She expressed her hope that the students will play a role as a bridge between China and their home countries, and contribute to the promotion of global women's development and the building of a community with a shared future for humanity. Peng briefed the students on her work as a special envoy for the Spring Bud Project to promote girls' education in China, and as a UNESCO Special Envoy for the Advancement of Girls' and Women's Education. She said China attaches great importance to the cause of women, and stands ready to work with the international community to create favorable conditions for women's development, provide equal and high-quality education opportunities for women, and help women acquire knowledge and skills for greater achievements. The students said they will make full use of the knowledge and skills learned in China to promote the development of women's cause in their own countries and the cooperation between their countries and China. The students are from CWU's International Master's Program of Social Work in "Women's Leadership and Social Development," established to implement initiatives announced by President Xi at the 2015 Global Leaders' Meeting on Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment. So far, 72 female students from 27 countries have studied under the program. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Contribution rememberedChild porn arrests shock S.California Chinese communityUtah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental Railroad