Middle school students in Beijing observe lunar probe models in the Military Museum of the Chinese People's Revolution in Beijing. Photo: Xu Keyue/GTChinese public has shown great passion over the ongoing National Science and Technology Week that is being celebrated nationwide, where remarkable technological innovations in various fields are on show.The event reflects not only the public passion to technology but also China's preparedness for competition with the US in advanced technology during the trade war, visitors at the Military Museum of the Chinese People's Revolution told the Global Times said on Friday. They noted they felt confident for China to win the trade war especially after seeing the advanced technology achievements at the activity. With total of 280 exhibition items, the museum is the main venue in Beijing. More than 300 million visitors are expected for the 21,000 events held nationwide during the National Science and Technology Week, scheduled from May 19 to 26, according to a statement provided by the Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission to the Global Times. Aiming to "make China strong by developing science, benefit people by popularizing science," the week is highly welcomed by the public, the commission said. The model of Deep Water Oil and Gas Development and Operation Fleet and the 600,000-kilowatt high-temperature gas-cooled reactor nuclear power plant attracted dozens of students, families and the elderly, the Global Times reporter spotted in the museum.  "How to explore and develop deep-water oil and gas? How does the Chang'e-4 probe of the Chinese Lunar exploration mission work? How is farming waste recycled? How did human capture the first image of the black hole? How does the robot help people in the construction sites? … All the questions can be solved in the exhibition," Pan Yueyan, a volunteer of the activity who was a student majoring Biology at Beijing Forestry University, told the Global Times. 

A scale model of a double-deck high-speed train attracts visitors during technology popularization week in Beijing. Photo: Xu Keyue/GTTechnology also can bring happy and convenient life for people, said another volunteer surnamed Yao, while introducing the oxygen cabin, advanced multifunctional nursing chair and intelligent walking machine which were designed for the disabled and the elderly.  "I feel really proud of my country. The exhibition makes the technology more comprehensible for us and I really learned a lot at this event," a middle-school student surnamed Li from the Beijing Bayi School shared his feeling to the Global Times, who was echoed by fellow students around. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star