Iranian film director Majid Majidi Photo: Li Hao/GTSitting down for an interview with Iranian filmmaker Majid Majidi, I found it hard to believe that this rough looking individual in front of me had been able to make so many touching and subtle films. Majidi's films are closely connected with themes about everyday ordinary life that have resonated with moviegoers around the world - friendship, love and family.   One of the most distinguished names in Iranian film history, Majidi has won numerous awards in his home country as well as acclaim across the globe. In 1998, his film Children of Heaven was the first Iranian film to be nominated for the Academy Award's Best Foreign Language Film category. Despite his fame, Majidi's output has remained simple and modest. His films have continued to focus on the lives of ordinary families since he came from one himself, while his preference for child actors comes from his belief in the innocent of kids. On Tuesday, with the help of a Persian translator, I sat down with Majidi in Beijing ahead of Asian Film Week, which he will attend on Thursday, to talk about his views on film.  Secret to successMajidi explained that he came from a traditional family in Iran, which meant that they did not support his dream of working in film. "I have five siblings, but I am the only person working with films in my family," Majidi said."I have been interested in drama since I was about 12 or 13 years old. I was really attracted by the art of performance and acting and started my creation. I studied drama and theater at college as well." However, talent and interest alone cannot guarantee success, especially considering his background, when facing problems, his determination drove him to solve them by himself one after another. "There were actually a lot of difficulties and challenges in my career," said Majidi. "People only see the result. They think that Majidi is falling right out of the blue, with sudden success."According to Majidi, he become independent in an early age. When he was in high school and college, he often worked to earn his tuition and living expenses. For him, these difficulties were like fighting a war. "There were countless difficulties when I filmed Children of Heaven," said Majidi. "I know it is easy to lose your confidence and give up, but you must take ceaseless efforts to achieve your goals."Love of innocenceUnlike the flamboyant blockbusters from Hollywood, Majidi's films rely on real life experiences, mainly seen through the eyes of children. Young actors play the protagonists in many of his most important films, such as The Color of Paradise and Children of Heaven.   "The world of children, is the world of purity and sincerity… they believe whatever you tell them," said Majidi, talking about why he prefers to observe the world from the perspective of children. "Children's innocence will have an impact on adults, and that's what I always want to express." However, finding suitable child actors is a far more difficult task than casting adults, Majidi admitted. For instance, when shooting Children of Heaven, Majidi and his team selected actors from tens of thousands of school children in Iran. In the end, it took them four months to find the right actor."It is equivalent to losing a child and then finding him, not just in a city like in Beijing, but all over the world." Cultural ambassador In 2008, Majidi was invited to shot a promotional short film for the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games titled Vision Beijing. Per his modus operandi, a large number of children appeared in this five-minute short, which he said was a joyful experience to shoot. He noted that while his Chinese crew gave him their full support and cooperation, he naturally felt a great deal of pressure since he was representing a different cultural than his own. "It was a great honor for me, but it was also a hard job," said Majidi. "It is a great challenge to depict China's 5,000 years of civilization in a five-minute short film." This was not the last time Majidi worked with a crew from another country. In 2017, Majidi shot his first Indian film Beyond the Cloud with an Indian crew. According to a report from the Hindustan Times, he has another Indian film in the works, which will be filmed in a small town. He also headed the jury of the 23rd International Film Festival of Kerala, India, in 2018, positively bridging the cultural gap and promoting the communication between Iran and India.  In April, he joined the jury for the 9th Beijing International Film Festival and, according to Majidi, he also plans to shoot another film in China in 2020. Commenting on Asian Film Week, Majidi said he believes that it makes a great jumping off point for film cooperation among Asian countries, and he is very confident in the future of the Asian film industry. "Connected by the Silk Road, our continent possesses the best cultural base in the world. I am not interested in those Western things," Majidi said to the Global Times."China has a very good development in Asia and plays a leading role, which can help Asian countries to cooperate and communicate better. China's Belt and Road Initiative provides the perfect platform for other countries, through which we can revive the Silk Road," said Majidi.Newspaper headline: Staying modest Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starUnrealistic expectations thwart Chinese job recruitersDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los Angeles