Children play with pumpkins on Pumpkin Festival in Collector, half an hour's drive from Australian capital Canberra, on May 5, 2019. The Collector Village Pumpkin Festival, falling on the first Sunday in May, is in its 16th year. The Collector Village which was normally tranquil was transformed into an amusement park on Sunday, attracting visitors from big cities to slow down and enjoy idyllic life. (Photo: Xinhua)

People take selfies on Pumpkin Festival in Collector, half an hour's drive from Australian capital Canberra, on May 5, 2019. The Collector Village Pumpkin Festival, falling on the first Sunday in May, is in its 16th year. The Collector Village which was normally tranquil was transformed into an amusement park on Sunday, attracting visitors from big cities to slow down and enjoy idyllic life. (Photo: Xinhua)

A girl plays Tic-Tac-Toe with pumpkins on Pumpkin Festival in Collector, half an hour's drive from Australian capital Canberra, on May 5, 2019. The Collector Village Pumpkin Festival, falling on the first Sunday in May, is in its 16th year. The Collector Village which was normally tranquil was transformed into an amusement park on Sunday, attracting visitors from big cities to slow down and enjoy idyllic life. (Photo: Xinhua)

Pumpkin-shaped glassware are seen at a booth on Pumpkin Festival in Collector, half an hour's drive from Australian capital Canberra, on May 5, 2019. The Collector Village Pumpkin Festival, falling on the first Sunday in May, is in its 16th year. The Collector Village which was normally tranquil was transformed into an amusement park on Sunday, attracting visitors from big cities to slow down and enjoy idyllic life. (Photo: Xinhua)

Pumpkins are piled under a road sign on Pumpkin Festival in Collector, half an hour's drive from Australian capital Canberra, on May 5, 2019. The Collector Village Pumpkin Festival, falling on the first Sunday in May, is in its 16th year. The Collector Village which was normally tranquil was transformed into an amusement park on Sunday, attracting visitors from big cities to slow down and enjoy idyllic life. (Photo: Xinhua)

Visitors choose pumpkins on Pumpkin Festival in Collector, half an hour's drive from Australian capital Canberra, on May 5, 2019. The Collector Village Pumpkin Festival, falling on the first Sunday in May, is in its 16th year. The Collector Village which was normally tranquil was transformed into an amusement park on Sunday, attracting visitors from big cities to slow down and enjoy idyllic life. (Photo: Xinhua)

A girl admires scarecrows with pumpkin heads on Pumpkin Festival in Collector, half an hour's drive from Australian capital Canberra, on May 5, 2019. The Collector Village Pumpkin Festival, falling on the first Sunday in May, is in its 16th year. The Collector Village which was normally tranquil was transformed into an amusement park on Sunday, attracting visitors from big cities to slow down and enjoy idyllic life. (Photo: Xinhua)

A child plays Tic-Tac-Toe with pumpkins on Pumpkin Festival in Collector, half an hour's drive from Australian capital Canberra, on May 5, 2019. The Collector Village Pumpkin Festival, falling on the first Sunday in May, is in its 16th year. The Collector Village which was normally tranquil was transformed into an amusement park on Sunday, attracting visitors from big cities to slow down and enjoy idyllic life. (Photo: Xinhua)

A boy takes part in a wheel barrow race on Pumpkin Festival in Collector, half an hour's drive from Australian capital Canberra, on May 5, 2019. The Collector Village Pumpkin Festival, falling on the first Sunday in May, is in its 16th year. The Collector Village which was normally tranquil was transformed into an amusement park on Sunday, attracting visitors from big cities to slow down and enjoy idyllic life. (Photo: Xinhua) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun