Indian President Ram Nath Kovind (L) greets Narendra Modi during a swearing-in ceremony at the Presidential Palace in New Delhi, India, May 30, 2019. Narendra Modi was sworn in for a second term as the country's prime minister on Thursday. (Xinhua)President of India Ram Nath Kovind administered the oath of office and secrecy to Narendra Modi as the country's prime minister on Thursday.This is Modi's second consecutive term as the country's premier.The swearing-in ceremony of Modi and his new Council of Ministers is being held at the forecourts of Rashtrapati Bhawan (President House) situated at the Raisina Hill in the Indian capital.Modi's first term of the prime minister began in 2014.The key highlights of the swearing-in ceremony were the inclusion of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) President Amit Shah and former Foreign Secretary S. Jaishankar in the cabinet, and the exclusion of External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj and Health Minister J.P. Nadda in Modi's new government.Over 45 ministers, including cabinet and junior ministers, are likely to be sworn in at the ceremony which began at 19:00 local time with Modi being the first to take the oath.The oath-taking ceremony is expected to last around two hours.

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi (front) gestures towards supporters after taking oath during a swearing-in ceremony at the Presidential Palace in New Delhi, India, May 30, 2019. Narendra Modi was sworn in for a second term as the country's prime minister on Thursday. (Xinhua)  

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi attends his swearing-in ceremony at the Presidential Palace in New Delhi, India, May 30, 2019. Narendra Modi was sworn in for a second term as the country's prime minister on Thursday. (Xinhua)  

Indian President Ram Nath Kovind (L, front) greets Narendra Modi during a swearing-in ceremony at the Presidential Palace in New Delhi, India, May 30, 2019. Narendra Modi was sworn in for a second term as the country's prime minister on Thursday. (Xinhua)  

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi gestures towards supporters after taking oath during a swearing-in ceremony at the Presidential Palace in New Delhi, India, May 30, 2019. Narendra Modi was sworn in for a second term as the country's prime minister on Thursday. (Xinhua)   

Narendra Modi takes oath as the Indian Prime Minister during a swearing-in ceremony at the Presidential Palace in New Delhi, India, May 30, 2019. Narendra Modi was sworn in for a second term as the country's prime minister on Thursday. (Xinhua)   

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi attends his swearing-in ceremony at the Presidential Palace in New Delhi, India, May 30, 2019. Narendra Modi was sworn in for a second term as the country's prime minister on Thursday. (Xinhua) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Contribution rememberedChild porn arrests shock S.California Chinese communityUtah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental Railroad