Chinese-made wok is shown during an exhibition in Beijing in March Photo: ICLeading Chinese companies and a rising number of consumers in the country have shown greater support for "Made-in-China" products recently amid the protracted trade row with the US, and analysts said that could create a stronger domestic market that is able to cushion side effects from the trade battle and provide impetus for economic growth.Alibaba Group unveiled a "New Chinese Product" plan on Wednesday, aiming to create 200 homegrown brands whose annual sales could exceed 1 billion yuan ($147.01 million) and help another 200 well-known Chinese brands to achieve annual sales of more than 100 million yuan in the next few years.The plan will also assist in the digital upgrading of 1,000 industrial clusters across China and help 700,000 Chinese companies sell their products abroad, according to a statement Alibaba sent to the Global Times on Thursday. "China's brands will usher in an era of explosive growth as the country's GDP per capita is nearing $10,000… 'Made in China' and 'Chinese products' will be transformed into 'Create in China' and 'Chinese brands'," Cai Yudong, an official of China's Ministry of Commerce, was quoted as saying in the statement. Alibaba's plan is in line with the theme of the Chinese Brands Day, which promotes and celebrates China's homegrown products. The event, approved by the State Council, China's cabinet, takes place on Friday. The campaign to support domestic products, coming at a time when the trade war between China and the US has suddenly escalated with the US threat of new tariffs on Friday, fired up widespread patriotic sentiment and an aversion toward US products on China's social media platforms."Please go away US products. My eyes are always on 'made in China'," said Weibo user Karria Dexiaowu, noting that he takes pride in buying domestic brands and contributing to the economy as a Chinese national. As anger over US tariffs mounts, Chinese consumers could also boycott US brands including Apple, Starbucks, Tesla, General Motors, Ford, Hewlett-Packard, Dell and machinery-maker Caterpillar Inc, industry insiders said.  Industry observers said that the trend toward domestic brands will play a key role in easing the country's reliance on exports amid rising trade tensions.  "China's manufacturing industry used to rely heavily on single foreign markets, such as the US. Now, with the robust demand at home, Chinese manufacturers could look to the domestic market to make a profit, rather than scrambling for survival under the clouds of the trade war," Wang Jun, deputy director of the Department of Information at the China Center for International Economic Exchanges, told the Global Times on Thursday.Booming high-quality products and services could also propel China's consumption upgrade and further release the consumer market's potential, Wang noted. "Consumption is China's largest bargaining chip and biggest source of confidence in dealing with a prolonged trade war with the US," he added.While rising patriotism could be a motivation for the growing appetite for local products, consumers said that the rising competitiveness of Chinese products over established foreign brands - both in terms of quality and price - weighed more in their decision. "I'm now wearing sports shoes made by Li Ning instead of the US-based Nike, which are more edgy and fashionable in design. The quality equals that of foreign brands, but the price is about 30 percent cheaper," a 30-something Beijing resident surnamed Chen told the Global Times on Thursday. Another consumer surnamed Huang, aged 29, said that Chinese brands' advantage also lies in their knowledge and deep understanding of local consumers. Huang is already a loyal supporter of Chinese brands like Huawei and Pechoin, and she plans to include more Chinese products in her daily life. In 2018, the growth rate of Chinese products' sales at online e-commerce platform JD.com was 14 percent higher than that of foreign brands, according to a statement on JD.com's WeChat account. "In the past, China was called the 'world's factory' that made inferior products. But now, China has an increasingly complicated industrial chain and the research and development of technology. Chinese products will gain more share in the domestic market," Wang said. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth