World War II veteran Galina Malysheva (C), 95, talks with others during celebrations of the Victory Day in Moscow, Russia, on May 9, 2019. Russia marks the 74th anniversary of the victory over Nazi Germany in World War II here on May 9. (Photo: Xinhua)  

A girl presents flowers to World War II veterans during celebrations of the Victory Day in Moscow, Russia, on May 9, 2019. Russia marks the 74th anniversary of the victory over Nazi Germany in World War II here on May 9. (Photo: Xinhua)

People dressed in Soviet-era uniforms attend celebrations of the Victory Day in Moscow, Russia, on May 9, 2019. Russia marks the 74th anniversary of the victory over Nazi Germany in World War II here on May 9. (Photo: Xinhua)

A man walks with a World War II veteran during celebrations of the Victory Day in Moscow, Russia, on May 9, 2019. Russia marks the 74th anniversary of the victory over Nazi Germany in World War II here on May 9. (Photo: Xinhua)

People dressed in Soviet-era uniforms talk with a World War II veteran during celebrations of the Victory Day in Moscow, Russia, on May 9, 2019. Russia marks the 74th anniversary of the victory over Nazi Germany in World War II here on May 9. (Photo: Xinhua)
 

World War II veteran Victor Novopashin (R), 87, dances during celebrations of the Victory Day in Moscow, Russia, on May 9, 2019. Russia marks the 74th anniversary of the victory over Nazi Germany in World War II here on May 9. (Photo: Xinhua)

WWII veteran Victor Novopashin (L in center), 87, dances during celebrations of the Victory Day in Moscow, Russia, on May 9, 2019. Russia marks the 74th anniversary of the victory over Nazi Germany in World War II here on May 9. (Photo: Xinhua)

People dressed in Soviet-era uniforms sing with World War II veteran Victor Novopashin (R) during celebrations of the Victory Day in Moscow, Russia, on May 9, 2019. Russia marks the 74th anniversary of the victory over Nazi Germany in World War II here on May 9. (Photo: Xinhua) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth