Illustration: Xia Qing/GTAs trade talks between the world's two largest economies continue, stock markets in the two countries have taken a hit since US President Donald Trump made startling China tariff threats on Twitter that have become a reality, leading to an escalation in trade tensions.Despite that, many Chinese companies believe China's economy is resilient enough to weather the storm.An example of this is my announcement earlier this year that 58.com won't be cutting jobs or slashing employee pay in 2019, as we are engaged in a long-term mission and have faith in long-term prospects.We don't care about fluctuations in the short-term, even though stock prices might be affected as a consequence. Persevering with investment will head us toward the desired destination.Our confidence for the future is two-pronged. First, we're confident in China, the only country in the world that can serve as a counterpoise to the US. Some people have proposed the Group of Two, referring to the China-US relationship. It is arguable that the two countries will compete with each other, learn from each other, and mutually transcend on all fronts. It is hoped that along with China's rise, Chinese companies can reach out to the global market.Second, the country itself is a huge market. The diligence, innovation and tenacity of Chinese people, in addition to a vast market with a population of 1.4 billion will unlock infinite vitality. This is a main reason for my optimism in the country.It should be noted that the regions primarily powering the economy - currently centering around a handful of coastal cities - might gradually turn out to include all prefecture-level cities before covering a multitude of counties. Someday in the future, the country's towns and villages, totaling roughly 40,000, will likely become hotbeds for economic growth and a variety of innovation and services. Meanwhile, there is unlimited potential in China's marketplace for everyday services. A galaxy of service providers committed to enabling a happy and peaceful life are seen rolling with the tide of China's economic development. These services providers, revolving around recruitment, home and car trade, among other sectors that account for a majority of people's existing assets, are more resistant to shocks.A recent survey by 58.com of average Chinese folks revealed that 66 percent of respondents said a comfortable living environment - whether rented or owned - was necessary for a happy and peaceful life. Sixty-one percent of the respondents focused more on employment, while 48 percent were mostly concerned about transportation services.That suggests the country's everyday services market still has a lot of potential for future growth. It's estimated that only one-tenth of need has been met, while efforts to explore the remaining nine-tenths are urgently required.The internet, a game of two halves, is also worth paying attention to. The first half of the game is mostly about dividends resulting from huge amounts of data flows across the internet. We are already halfway through the game and ought to consider from where the greater dividends originate.Now almost everyone spends a great deal of time on the internet, meaning there might be a limited scope for growth for internet traffic. The next engine of growth is supposed to be internet-based services. It is anticipated that the internet will empower wide-ranging businesses for everyday needs from property developers and brokers, to moving, housekeeping companies and maintenance service providers to more effectively appeal to everyday users.With emerging technologies, notably artificial intelligence, gaining in popularity, everyday services could be expected to become smarter, thereby satisfying the Chinese people's ever-growing desire for a better life.The article was compiled based on a speech by Yao Jinbo, CEO of New York Stock Exchange-traded Chinese classifieds site 58.com, at an annual company event in Beijing on Wednesday. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth