A foreign businessman selects goods in Yiwu International Trade City. Photo: VCGChinese enterprises will not be dented by the escalated trade row with the US as they have experienced a long adjustment period and found measures to tackle a complicated foreign trade environment as the US raised tariffs.The US changed a 10 percent tariff on $200 billion worth of Chinese products, including electronics, clothes and toys to 25 percent, starting at 12:01 pm Friday Beijing time. Chinese goods covered by the September 2018 action that were exported prior to Friday were not affected by the increased duty as long as they enter the US prior to June 1, 2019. Such products remain subject to the additional 10 percent duty for a transitional period, according to an announcement of the office of the US Trade Representative."It remains to be seen if the next 20 days will see a deal between the two sides, the result of which will determine the strategy of Chinese exporters. But I believe they are prepared," said Li Jun, a research fellow with the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation under the Ministry of Commerce.  If the 25 percent tariff is imposed by that time, it matters a lot more. Just think of the high cost to US consumers and how some US industries like soybean traders will handle their business under China's countermeasures, which I think will be released soon," Li told the Global Times Friday.Looking inward, China is accelerating its pace in transforming to a strong trade nation by forging a new competitive edge and exploring new space, as well as expanding its imports from other countries, analysts said. Under such improvements, Chinese enterprises are embracing the spirit of solidarity, facing up to external chaos and expressing their confidence in business, Li said.Maturity"China is not like Japan [during the US-Japan trade war], because we have a huge domestic market and complete industrial chain. You can never doubt Chinese people's solidarity and ability to resist pressure," said Chen Liang, general manager of Dongguan Jinconn New Material Holdings Co, a private company that specializes in magnetic materials.Dongguan is a major manufacturing hub in South China's Guangdong Province, dubbed the "world's factory." "I'm not worried about the trade war having an effect on orders or the business since we've adjusted our strategy to the domestic market this year and cooperated with high-tech firms like Huawei and Xiaomi," Chen told the Global Times Friday.Stable economic growth and a huge market will definitely bring new orders, so the current obstacle should not be amplified, said Chen.Shi Xinyu, a trader in East China's Yiwu, the country's trade hub, said Friday that the tariff hikes won't have much impact on his business, which mostly focuses on imports now. "Those Chinese companies that mostly focus on US markets might take some toll. But from what I observed, many local companies have already taken measures to cope with the situation, such as finding other markets." "As to the impact of the tariff increase on Yiwu's business, there might be a negative effect initially, but after a year, we as merchants have adapted to such situations. And we are quite calm to such external changes." "Chinese entrepreneurs aren't that vulnerable nor is our country," Shi added.Shi's company mostly imports detergents and maternal products from Italy. He said there is quite a big demand from Chinese for those products. His company also exports some jewelry products to Vietnam. "Neighboring countries like Vietnam are quite dependent on Chinese goods, which makes trading with them more stable [compared with the US]."  "Chinese firms have gradually fit in to the changing trade environment after the prolonged China-US trade dispute, which greatly cushioned the damage that higher tariffs have done to the country's trade and economy," said Huang Jianzhong, dean of the Shanghai University of International Business and Economics.China's foreign trade of goods rose 4.3 percent year-on-year in the first four months of the year to 9.51 trillion yuan ($1.41 trillion), data from the General Administration of Customs showed Wednesday.Exports expanded by 5.7 percent year-on-year to 5.06 trillion yuan in the same period, while imports increased by 2.9 percent to 4.45 trillion yuan.China's foreign trade momentum continues to steadily improve amid the country's strategic window of opportunity when old growth engines are gradually being replaced by new ones, Huang said."External changes will have some impact, but looking at it from another point of view, it just accelerates China's pace in pursuing high-quality growth," he noted. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth