Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe paid a visit to the US in late April. To begin with, there are trade issues between the US and Japan. Abe is trying to establish win-win relations with the US in the economic field, overcoming the contradictions and obstacles between both nations. To reassure US President Donald Trump's concerns over US large trade deficit with Japan, Abe reportedly said that Japan is investing $40 billion in new car factories in the US. This was proof enough of Tokyo's proactive intentions to invest in the US automotive industry in a move to direct pressure away from the Trump administration. During the meeting, Trump and Abe clarified their position on North Korea. Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and the abduction of Japanese citizens by North Korea were highlighted during their talks. Trump and Abe affirmed close coordination would be necessary to "achieve fully verified denuclearization." Abe strived for Trump's support on the abduction issue, endeavoring to resolve it as soon as possible. But he also made it clear that "I have to meet face-to-face with Chairman Kim Jong-un to resolve this issue" in March. Abe's visit consists of his strategic choices and multiple schemes. At the top of the agenda is how to stabilize the Japan-US alliance amid changing environment. After Trump took office, Japan developed decoupling tendencies influenced by the US. Japan's economic and trade contradictions have become increasingly obvious. During previous trade negotiations, the US demanded Japan further open its market for agricultural products, including beef, meanwhile Tokyo found it difficult to accept US' restrictions on vehicle imports and required Washington to reduce car tariffs. Although Abe and Trump reached a consensus in accelerating the next round of talks, negotiations on more specific issues will not come up smelling like roses.When it comes to North Korea, Japan needs to develop its own voice. Tokyo has insisted on applying pressure on Pyongyang but does not refrain from having discussions with Pyongyang. Japan's role in the North Korean issue is subtle. The Korean Peninsula is a hot-button topic while Japan-North Korea ties remain lackluster. This is a dilemma for Japan. How to break this deadlock, acquire a louder voice and obtain diplomatic achievement are important concerns of the Abe administration's policy on North Korea. The most important issue to observe Japan-US ties lies within Japan's foreign strategic trend. Among Japan's foreign strategies, their US policy is vital. Facing Trump administration's "America first" principle, the rift between Tokyo and Washington has become increasingly obvious. The rift is not what mainstream Japanese politics wants to see or are willing to accept. But the US will keep Japan as close as possible. Trump's upcoming visit to Japan proves this methodology.While strengthening the Japan-US alliance, the Abe administration has been focusing on a global vision, especially enhancing China diplomacy. Next, Japan's additional moves are expected in Beijing-Tokyo relations.2019 is an important year for Japanese diplomacy. Although the Japan-US alliance, the base of Japan's diplomacy, seems loose, both sides want stability. When visiting Japan, other than being honored as the first state guest during the Reiwa Era, what Trump cares about is achieving the biggest consensus with Abe regarding security, economy and international rules.During Abe's address in the US, he compared the US-Japan alliance during the Cold War to the new era as one filled with twists and turns. This will be the new norm for relations in the new period.The author is vice director of diplomatic studies at Institute of Japanese Studies, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun