Tickets to the Badaling Great Wall will be available for visitors to book online in June, with a limited number of 65,000 each day, according to Badaling's ticketing homepage. Visitors can book tickets seven days in advance with their ID information and then enter the area with their IDs. This method is being used after a similar approach adopted by the Palace Museum and the National Museum of China. In addition to its webpage, the Badaling Great Wall has also launched booking services on its official WeChat account. QR codes are printed on buses to the Badaling Great Wall, so that tourists can also buy tickets by scanning. The booking system allows tourists to gain access to the scenic spot much more conveniently and spend less time queuing. It will also allow the tourism office to prepare services according to the booking data, according to the Beijing Youth Daily on Wednesday. Using the previous experience, the scenic spot developed a scheme to adjust tourist volume, with different warning systems used for 60 percent, 80 percent and 100 percent of optimal capacity. When the number of tourists exceeds the warning threshold inside the Badaling Great Wall tourism area, authorities will implement diversions.The Badaling Great Wall received more than 9.9 million visitors in 2018, according to the report. Shan Qixiang, former head of the Palace Museum, said at a recent lecture in Guangzhou in South China's Guangdong Province that all national scenic spots share similar challenges of an imbalance in visitor numbers, with peak numbers occurring during holiday seasons.  "With digital technology applied so popularly, it is critical to design programs to give visitors more diversified cultural exhibitions while offering a better and safer experience," Shan said. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star