Mainland stocks edged down on Monday morning after news on Sunday that Liu Shiyu, former head of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), had given himself up to the authorities. According to a statement published by the China Central Commission for Discipline Inspection on its official website, Liu is suspected of violation of disciplines and laws. Currently, he is cooperating with government investigations. No further details have been disclosed. The two markets edged down on Monday morning. Five minutes after the two bourses opened, the Shanghai Composite Index fell by 0.13 percent to 2,878.47 points, while the Shenzhen market edged down by 0.55 percent to 8,950.8 points. The drop had grown to 0.59 percent on the Shanghai market and 1 percent on the Shenzhen market as of the close of the morning session. An employee at a domestic securities company told the Global Times on condition of anonymity that the A-share markets' fall in recent days is mostly driven by external pressure as the trade disputes proceed."Since Liu is not in office at the CSRC now, his voluntary surrender should not have too much of an impact on the domestic stock markets," he said. The US is updating its sanctions against Chinese high-tech companies. The US-based Google has suspended business with Huawei, according to a Reuters report on Monday. The Trump administration also added Huawei to a list of companies that American firms can't trade with unless they have a license. Dong Dengxin, director of the Finance and Securities Institute at the Wuhan University of Science and Technology, said that the A-share markets had already been in a process of self-adjustment because of external pressure, and the news of Liu’s confession, which came as a shock to the markets, would amplify such fluctuations. But he anticipated that the influence of the news on A-share markets would beshort-lived.“The markets will digest the news very quickly,” he said. Liu was in office as the CSRC head from February 2016 to January 2019. After stepping down as head of the CSRC, Liu took officeas the deputy Party secretary of the All China Federation of Supply and Marketing Cooperatives. According to a report from Caijing Magazine on Monday, during Liu Shiyu’s tenure as CSRC head, many local city commercial banks and rural commercial banks in East China’s Jiangsu Province,where Liu is from, had completed IPOs,which sparked wide market doubts. This is considered an important reason for Liu’s voluntary confession. During Liu’s tenure, the Shanghai market plunged by about 9 percent and the Shenzhen market by about 18 percent in total. But Dong also pointed out that Liu had carried out many reforms during his tenure, such as perfecting the information disclosure system on the stock markets. Dong described those reforms as “bold.”Global Times Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star