Beijing Organizing Committee for the 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games (BOCWOG) released the action plan on volunteer services here on Friday, marking the Beijing 2022 1000-Day Countdown. "Volunteers are important contributors to insure the success of the Olympics and Paralympics," Zhang Jiandong, Executive Vice President of Beijing 2022, said on the Countdown ceremony, adding that Beijing, the only city to hold both Summer and Winter Olympic Games, would pool wisdom from volunteers all around the world in order to deliver a fantastic, extraordinary and excellent Games. According to the plan, five volunteer services projects will be launched, including Pre-Games Volunteers Project, City Volunteers Project, Test Events Volunteers Project, Volunteer Service Legacy Conversion Project, and Games-time Volunteers Project. Multiple plans including communication, recruitment and training will also be put into operation for the sake of wider public participation. Beijing 2022 will kick off the global recruitment program for Games-time volunteers at the end of December 2019. According to the data released by the human resource department of BOCWOG, 27,000 volunteers will be needed for the Olympic and 12,000 for the Paralympic. The Games-time volunteers are expected to be sourced mainly from domestic college and high school students, overseas Chinese, international volunteers, and the volunteers selected at the provincial level plus Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan. Multiple ways of recruitment will be available to the public, including group and individual, open and targeted, online and offline. Tests, selection and background checks will be conducted in proper ways before recruitment and assignment. The Organizing Committee also encourages athletes specialized in winter sports to apply for positions of professional volunteers. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth