China's top anti-graft watchdog released detailed information on 50 fugitives who allegedly engaged in corrupt acts or economic crimes, with 23 of them hiding in the US. Photo: IC Disciplinary authorities in Northwest China's Shaanxi Province have stepped into a case in which a state-owned assets supervision department in North China's Hebei Province accused a Shaanxi county government of violating anti-graft regulations.The state-owned assets supervision and administration commission of (SASAC) of Xingtai, Hebei has filed a complaint against the Party committee and the government of Binzhou county, Shaanxi for not paying a Xingtai SASAC-owned hotel more than 8.5 million yuan ($1.23 million) for more than five years. The bill was for extravagant receptions which severely violate the Eight-point Regulation, Xingtai??/span>s SASAC claimed. The Eight-point Regulation was released by the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee in 2012. It requires Party members to avoid extravagance, bureaucracy and abuse of power. The regulation has played a vital role in the anti-corruption battle. Following the complaint, the Binzhou county government in Shaanxi paid part of its debt to a five-star hotel International Garden. A debt of 6 million yuan ($868,800) is still owed to Xingtai SASAC, according to a complaint to the discipline inspection commission and the supervision commission of Shaanxi Province, thepaper.cn reported Monday. The hotel still has more than 200 IOUs issued by the Binzhou county government, according to The Beijing News on Tuesday.  An official from the Publicity Department of Binzhou county, who requested anonymity, told the Global Times on Tuesday that "the case is under investigation." Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star