Power utility Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company on Thursday warned users that it may be forced to re-introduce load shedding in the near future if demand continues to outstrip supplies following the curtailment of power generation at its Kariba South Hydro Power Station. Zimbabwe has enjoyed more than four years without load shedding, but the drought of 2018/19 has pushed the Zambezi River Authority to reduce water allocation to the Zimbabwe Power Company from 19 billion cubic meters to 16 billion cubic meters for 2019. The rationing is meant to ensure that the plant continues to run until the next rainy season. To this end, electricity generation at Kariba Power Station will thus be reduced to an average of 358 MW from the planned average of 542MW as a direct result of this water allocation reduction and this has led to a power supply gap, said the power utility in a statement. The water supply situation, and thus generation at Kariba, will be reviewed as the year progresses, it added. ZETDC urged customers to switch off all non-essential load to maintain a balance between the supply of power and demand so that stability of the grid is ensured during morning and evening peak periods. "Large power users are also requested to reduce their power demand during the morning and evening peak periods of 5 a.m. to 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. respectively." "In the event that this supply and demand equilibrium is not maintained, the power utility would have no choice but to curtail some loads to restore grid stability," the utility said. Power generation at Hwange Thermal Power Station and the smaller thermal power stations of Harare, Bulawayo and Munyati remain fragile because of old age. Chinese company Sino Hydro is currently refurbishing Hwange Thermal Power Station at a cost of 1.5 billion US dollars to add two generators each producing 300 MW. Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa commissioned the project last June, with work expected to be completed in 42 months. The power station currently has an installed capacity of 920 MW but cannot generate at optimum level because of the ageing equipment. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun