Illustration: Xia Qing/GTIndia has found success in deploying geostrategic measures since gaining its independence, which helped it become a great power with geopolitical advantages and remain unaffected by the changes the world is experiencing. With the launch of the US' Indo-Pacific Strategy, India is another pillar of US President Donald Trump's new Afghanistan strategy, which provides India the opportunity to take the lead and consolidate its geopolitical advantages.India has invested heavily in Afghanistan over the years, gaining more soft power in the country. The Taliban regime in Afghanistan was overthrown in 2001, and the Northern Alliance, which is supported by India, occupied a dominant position under the new regime, leading to India's rising influence. India participated in Afghanistan's reconstruction and increased its impact through soft power in the country. As of 2011, India provided a total of $1.5 billion in relief funding to Afghanistan with almost 4,000 Indians assigned to the aid project, making India the fifth largest financial aid source to Afghanistan.Before 2011, aid from India was focused on infrastructure, social security and education. Projects included the Delaram-Zaranj Highway, Surkhan-Pul-e-Khumri Power Line, and the Afghan-India Friendship Dam. India also dispatched medical teams, accepted many Afghan students, and helped build several schools in Afghanistan. The initiatives helped India achieve more significant influence in Afghanistan. The Afghan people hold a favorable view of India as they did not send troops but instead provided assistance. India enhanced its military assistance to Afghanistan in 2014 after NATO troops withdrew from the country. The following year, India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi provided weapons and training. US President Donald Trump's request for India to enlarge its investment in Afghanistan's reconstruction would not encounter too many obstacles from India as it would be in line with the country's strategic interests to compete against Pakistani influence. From the US perspective, India providing aid or training to Afghanistan would face less opposition inside the country and receive greater results than any NATO initiative because the majority of Afghans hold a neutral image of India, which would help stabilize their society.It would not work for India if Trump asked them to send troops or security forces to Afghanistan. According to media reports, the Indian government has stated it would not send a single soldier to the country. India will receive a boost from Trump's new Afghanistan strategy. However, India is more suitable to help build the country's economy and stabilize society than Western countries.India's growing geographical influence in the region is not an example of luck. The results are proof of India's successful intervention approach and the stand it takes and the way it handles issues such as democracy, institutions, culture, tradition and religion.China and India have plenty of room to cooperate in Afghanistan.According to the statistical bulletin of China's outward foreign direct investment in 2015 released by the Ministry of Commerce of China, as of 2015, Chinese enterprises' investment in Afghanistan reached $420 million, accounting for 25 percent of the total outstanding investment in Afghanistan from 2003-15. Chinese companies, almost all of them state-owned enterprises in Afghanistan, mainly conduct business in the fields of energy, mining, infrastructure engineering contracting, communication engineering and licorice production.China could forge cooperation with India in Afghanistan. India's growing geographical influence, combined with substantial investment incentives from Chinese companies, would be a good mix. China could utilize its capital and efficiency while India could successfully handle issues on institutions, culture, traditions and religions. If both countries worked together, China could help India to better utilize its advantages in Afghanistan. Meanwhile, India could help China with its industrial expansion. The article was compiled based on a report by Beijing-based private strategic think tank Anbound. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star