The Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Mohammad Ishtaye accused the United States on Wednesday of blackmailing the Palestinians to surrender and accept its upcoming peace plan, known as "Deal of the Century." "It is obvious that the recent US measures taken against the Palestinians aimed at obliging us to surrender and accept the peace deal," Ishtaye told a delegation of American academics and think-tanks. He said that considering Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, moving the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, closing Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) office in Washington and stopping aid to the Palestinians "were all made to blackmail us." "If the 'Deal of the Century' doesn't include Jerusalem, the border or the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, so why should we accept it," said Ishtaye. "We saw practices on the ground worse than the text of the deal itself," the prime minister noted. Ties between the Palestinian Authority and the United States had been severed after US President Donald Trump announced that Jerusalem was the capital of Israel in Dec. 2017 and then moved US embassy from Tel Aviv to the city. Ishtaye was responding to the recent unveiling parts of the peace deal that the United States is determined to declare soon to resolve the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. Meanwhile, Secretary General of the PLO Executive Committee Saeb Erekat said in a press statement after meeting with the US delegation that the Palestinians are sticking to the two-state solution on 1967 borders. "The Palestinian side is sticking to the international laws and the international legitimacy, wants to live in peace and security to the side of the state of Israel and resolve all the final status issues," said Erekat. "Talking only about economic projects and improving the daily living conditions while the Israeli occupation goes on will lead to more violence, chaos and blood shedding," he emphasiszed. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun