The US Assistant Secretary of Defense Randall G. Schriver recently labeled the education and vocational training centers in some places in China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region as "concentration camps." This is the craziest attack by a US official on the governance of Xinjiang.Washington's growing smear campaign on China's Xinjiang affairs is clearly part of a broader US policy of suppressing China. But the US does not have the ability to mess up the situation in Xinjiang. Even in the international arena, it is very difficult for the US to open up a diplomatic front specifically for Xinjiang. So, we don't have to be swayed by the whining of some US officials. China has the capital to advance its work in accordance with the established policy on the governance of Xinjiang.How to effectively manage Xinjiang well should be the first consideration in the long-term affairs of the region. It is worthwhile to pay attention to the reaction of international public opinion and try to increase the understanding of the Western world, but it should be placed in a secondary position. At present, the situation in Xinjiang has shown an obvious trend of stabilization, which shows that various measures, including the establishment of education and vocational training centers, have played a role.New Zealand and Sri Lanka have recently suffered religious massacres. Xinjiang, in turn, has been shielded from the flow of international terrorism and extremism. International opinion will gradually turn in the favor of Xinjiang governance.As long as Xinjiang can maintain basic stability and avoid the catastrophic resurgence of violent and terrorist activities, the education and training centers will gradually reduce after a period of time. The governance in Xinjiang will gradually return to normal, and in this process Xinjiang will finally bid farewell to large-scale bloody terrorist activities. All the accusations of so-called "ethnic persecution" in Xinjiang are historically indefensible and will eventually fade away.The next challenge for Xinjiang is to maintain the current stability and consolidate the learning outcomes of many trainees of the education and training centers to prevent a new wave of extreme events. The people of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang, and the whole country, are a community of shared interests. This must be fully understood by the people of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang.  Xinjiang needs to strengthen grassroots publicity and education work, so that people in sensitive areas can understand the general situation of the game between China and the US, as well as the attempt made by some Western forces to incite extremism within China, which would serve as cannon fodder for their China strategy. Xinjiang may not need to set the level of social security higher than other parts of the country. But it must stay basically stable and resolutely avoid large-scale terrorist activities that occurred in previous years. This will be the key indicator for a final evaluation of Xinjiang's governance outcomes at this stage. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun