A view of Hong Kong Disneyland in April Photo: ICThe Finance Committee of the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region approved an application for 5.45 billion yuan ($806 million) to expand the Hong Kong Disneyland resort, Beijing Business Today reported Monday. Experts noted that this can be a response to the increasing competition pressure that Hong Kong Disneyland is facing from Shanghai Disneyland to attract more tourists from the Chinese mainland. The resort plans to increase its attractions to 130 by the year 2023. The number of theme parks will also be raised to nine from seven, according to the report.Chen Shaofeng, vice dean of the Institute for Cultural Industries at Peking University, told the Global Times Tuesday that Hong Kong Disneyland needs to expand and innovate in order to compete with the much younger Disneyland in Shanghai."As amusement parks, Disneyland facilities can be homogenous, which means that as a park launched more than 10 years ago, Hong Kong Disneyland must constantly renew itself to make sure that it keeps its appeal to the visitors from the Chinese mainland. That's especially the case considering the Disneyland in Shanghai is bigger and has more new facilities," Chen noted.Tourists from the Chinese mainland constitute a large part of visitors for Hong Kong Disneyland. In 2018, a total of 6.7 million trips were paid to the resort, 34 percent of which came from the mainland, according to a report by the Xinhua News Agency in February.However, to compete with Shanghai Disneyland won't be easy, according to Chen. "Shanghai is more accessible to most Chinese citizens living in the mainland," Chen said. "It is located midway between the north and the south, and visitors don't need to apply for an entry permit to enter the city, as they do for Hong Kong."To keep its competitive edge, Hong Kong Disneyland is constantly upgrading itself. According to the Disney parks blog, in March, the Hong Kong Disneyland launched Ant-Man and The Wasp: Nano Battle! in its park, a brand new interactive attraction featuring the massively popular Marvel superheroes. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun