The 2017 Midi Music Festival in Wujiang, Jiangsu Province Photo: ICThis International Workers' Day didn't disappoint Chinese rock'n'roll music fans. Nearly 80,000 music lovers attended the four-day 2019 Taihu Lake Midi Festival in Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, during the holiday period to watch their favorite bands.Entering its 20th year, the rock music festival's theme this time paid tribute to the 50th anniversary of the Woodstock music festival. On Saturday, the final day of the holiday, the festival reached a climax with signature Chinese rock bands like Nine Treasures as well as foreign ones including The Star Club and Paledusk from Japan and Betraying the Martyrs from France.  Talking to Chinese music industry insiders, many said that there are still plenty of platforms for rock'n'roll music in China, as it is not limited to just small number of fans.Growing exposure"Rock and indie music have become more popular in China since 2000… The room for development and number of performance stages have increased," CEO of Beijing Midi Productions Compaby Shan Wei told the Global Times.Chinese music critic Guo Zhikai echoed Wei's opinion, "The performance environment for rock'n'roll in China has improved immensely." Guo also pointed out that Chinese rock performers don't need to rely on media agencies as much as they used to be because they can establish and manage their fan bases well on their own thanks to the prevalence of social media and the ability to publish music online.   According to Shan, rock music is very widespread in China. It reaches audiences through major conventional channels such as TV and internet entertainment programs and as the scores for TV series or films. Apart from live houses and concert venues, Chinese theaters also occasionally cooperate with rock musicians, while some music companies hold rock music competitions. No superstars?A few Chinese rock stars, like Cui Jian and Dou Wei in the 1990s, created classic songs that established their positions in the genre. However, when it comes to today, neither Shan nor Guo could name a single iconic star from this latest generation of rock musicians."It's hard to just hear one voice when audiences' interests and the genre of rock'n'roll are highly divided and specialized in China," Shan explained. "Beforehand, there were only a few names and a couple of albums, but now every year hundreds of albums are released and hundreds and thousands of bands tour around the country," he noted, pointing why a single rock band or musician cannot easily stand out and represent the whole genre on their own.   This, however, doesn't mean there aren't important stars."I think you can find representative rock bands in China for almost every subordinate genre, for example the punk band Brain Failure and the pop rock band Escape Plan," Shan said. Continued evolution The different genres of rock in China exist because Chinese bands incorporate elements from other genres such as ballads and jazz into their music. And more importantly, they want to produce their own voices while maintaining a strong Chinese identity.Guo was adamant that if a Chinese rock band wants to achieve fame, they must absorb and use Chinese culture in their music. There are a group of bands that stand out precisely for this reason. For example, Second Hand Rose seamlessly combines rock and errenzhuan, a traditional folk song and dance form in Northeast China. The well-known Chinese rock band Hanggai found success by bringing a touch of Mongolian music to their works. Band founder Ilchi has said their passion is to combine East and West and the traditional with modern music.  For many Chinese rockers just starting out, representative foreign works are good models to follow to develop one's skills and techniques, but later an artist will develop their own style. Some innovative rockers, such as Cui Jian and Hanggai, surprise audiences by cooperating with classical music symphonies. But this doesn't mean they are isolated from the global rock industry. "Generally speaking, foreign bands treat China as a necessary stop on their Asian tours. When they come, they have a chance to perform at one to two music festivals and plus another five or six performances at live houses," said Shan.  Shan also told the Global Times that the Midi Festival has established long-term cooperative relationships with international music festivals to promote culture exchanges and improve the genre of rock.Newspaper headline: Music in the air Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun