Visitors take pictures of a mummy at the Hunan Museum in Changsha, Hunan Province, on December 3, 2018. Photo: ICChangsha, Central China's Hunan Province, is set to celebrate International Museum Day on May 18 in a big way. On Sunday, China's National Cultural Heritage Administration (NCHA) announced that a major event will be held in the Hunan Museum in Changsha this year along with a series of cultural activities to be held throughout the rest of the province under the theme of Museum as Cultural Hubs: The Future of Tradition. According to Guan Qiang, NCHA deputy director, the theme focuses on the role museums play in improving people's lives and the creative development of traditional Chinese culture.'Living room of a city' Since 1992, the International Council of Museums (ICOM) first began setting a theme for celebrations that closely relates to museums and important issues in contemporary society.The theme this year not only focuses on the cultural function of museums, but also their function as a public service that plays a role in enhancing the public's cultural identity and sense of belonging and happiness."Museums today should not be the solemn place they used to be but a public institution that acts as a cultural hub… they cannot limit themselves to the dissemination of knowledge, they are the 'living room' of a city," Guan said at the press conference. Guan also noted that the role of "cultural hub" includes acting as a platform for cultural exchanges. "Museums should be committed to building platforms for exchanges and dialogues between different civilizations and promoting interconnection, inclusiveness and mutual understanding," Guan said. In addition, museums' role as a cultural hub is also reflected in the increasing use of modern technology to showcase culture and bridge the gap between tradition and the future."I hope tradition and the future, museums and society could be better connected… I hope we can make museums a better place for the general public," he added.Cultural advantage Hunan Province has a long history and rich troves of cultural relics, which give it a significant advantage when it comes to hosting cultural activities. Besides the main event in the Hunan Museum in Changsha, a series of exhibitions and activities under the theme Root and Source - Discovering the Beauty of Hunan Culture will be held in 153 museums throughout the province in the lead up to International Museum Day.Exhibition Roots & Soul - The Story of Chinese Civilization is sure to capture people's attention. Chen Yuanping, head of the Hunan Provincial Cultural Relics Bureau, highly recommended the exhibition during Sunday's press conference. According to Chen, the relics spread across 30 displays at the exhibition are on loan from 25 museums around China such as the Military Museum of the Chinese People's Revolution, the Palace Museum and the Nanjing Museum. "Although the quantity of relics is not large, these cultural relics are representative national treasures," Chen said on Monday. According to Chen, the aim of this exhibition is to showcase China's long and splendid civilization, and explore the value of these historical relics. Museums on the riseMuseums have been increasingly popular over the past few years, becoming more and more an important part of people's lives. According to data provided by NCHA, museums in China held more than 20,000 exhibitions and over 200,000 educational activities in 2018 and received more than 1 billion visitors."During this year's Spring Festival, many families chose to celebrate at the Palace Museum. Visiting museums has become a new trend for people's holiday plans," Guan pointed out. Increasingly popular among younger generations, the Palace Museum in Beijing is a textbook example of how a museum can "make cultural relics come alive" through creative cultural products and the application of smart devices and digital technology. At the conference, Luo Jing, the NCHA deputy department director in charge of museum development, stressed the important role technology plays in modern museums. According to Luo, in addition to the Palace Museum, the Suzhou Museum and Shanghai Museum have also implemented digitization and online networking plans after five years of preparation.In 2017, the NCHA signed an agreement with China Mobile and in 2018 with internet giants Tencent and Baidu to improve museums' connection to the internet, while in March the Palace Museum signed an agreement with Chinese telecommunication Giant Huawei to bring 5G mobile internet to the museum."The Hunan Museum will implement 5G network coverage on the International Museum Day. I believe that through the application of new technology, museums will be able to better carry out functions such as collection, research, education, exhibition and communication, and the services provided by museums will be improved," said Luo. Newspaper headline: Treasure trove of culture Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun