The screen in the middle of the classroom's blackboard is like a window to the outside world for nine-year-old Long Xinyu in the poverty-stricken county of Huayuan in central China's Hunan Province. Through the screen, Long can take lessons from the best teachers in the province and even the country, thanks to the Internet plus education action plan launched by Hunan Province in 2018. "The teachers on the screen painted us a lot of beautiful paintings that I never saw before," she said. "Children in village schools don't even know what a beat was when I gave my first music lesson," said Long Haoyu, an online teacher. "A window to the outside world is the gift that children in poverty-stricken villages want the most for International Children's Day," he added. Liu Ziqi, a 12-year-old student in Jinggangshan Primary School in east China's Jiangxi Province, can talk with foreign teachers "face to face" using video chat in English class. "It's like the foreign teachers were there in the class with me," she said. "All of the school's 57 classes have Internet access," said Principal Zhang Qingyun. More than 99 percent of middle and primary schools have access to the Internet in Jiangxi Province, and the multi-media classrooms in the schools account for over 92 percent of the total. With the help of the Internet platform, Kang Longchu, a physics teacher in a middle school in Cangyuan Wa Autonomous County in southwest China's Yunnan Province, can teach more than 1,800 students throughout the county at the same time. Located in southwestern Yunnan Province, the county is over 99 percent mountainous. "It used to take hours to go to schools in the mountains," he said. "Now, the Internet platform helps me teach more students more efficiently." "The multi-media teaching methods including videos and GIFs are also effective," he added. "Students can master the Archimedes Principle soon after watching the video." "The Internet platform, where elite teachers can live stream their lessons to students throughout the county, plays an important role in sharing education resources, which is beneficial for both teachers and students," said Yang Quanwen, head of the bureau of education and sports of the county. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Contribution rememberedChild porn arrests shock S.California Chinese communityUtah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental Railroad