The shantytown of Hegang, Northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, which is currently being rebuilt Photo: VCG
"My colleagues and I thought the news was really funny. The bargain-basement home prices are special cases of units built in shanty towns, which locals are reluctant to buy and live in because of its distance from the city center," Tian Lin (pseudonym), a 55-year-old Hegang native, told the Global Times.The news that housing prices in Hegang, a declining city in Northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, were as low as 300 yuan ($44) per square meter sparked concern and discussions about resource-exhausted cities, which are facing difficulties in industrial transformation and population outflow. The normal commercial residential home price in Nanshan district, where Tian lives, is 2,000 yuan per square meter, and home prices in the city center can go up to 3,000 yuan per square meter. Housing prices in Hegang are falling and are much cheaper than other cities in China, Tian said. Hegang ranked last among 341 cities included in house pricing statistics, with an average of 2,177 yuan per square meter, according to China Real Estate Association in March. Resource depletion and population outflowThe reason behind the housing is its lagging local economic development. Hegang is well known for its coal industry, which has a history of a hundred years. It had up to 2.6 billion tons of geological reserves of coal, has one of the country's four major coal mines, and is an important source of high-quality thermal and chemical coal in China, according to China News Service in April. However, Hegang was on the list of the third batch of resource-exhausted cities released by the National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Natural Resource and Ministry of Finance in 2011. About 30 coal mines were closed in 2018. Hegang's secondary industry accounted for about 10 percent less of GDP in 2017 than 10 years ago. In the same year, of the 13 prefecture-level cities in Heilongjiang Province, Hegang ranked third from bottom in terms of GDP, The Beijing News reported in May.Zhao Kongquan, 32, from Hegang, runs a barbecued meat restaurant in Southwest China's Sichuan Province. Zhao told the Global Times that he came to Sichuan for a job with a decent income, as there are less work opportunities in Hegang. More and more young people are leaving Hegang for better development opportunities. The registered population of Hegang has been in negative growth for 16 consecutive years. According to the statistical yearbook of Heilongjiang Province, the registered population in Hegang went down from 1,112,600 in 2001 to 1,009,500 in 2017. Shanty town renovationThe low price of housing in Hegang is largely due to the excess supply caused by renovation of shanty areas in the past few years, which has led to a large number of houses in the suburbs, Zhang Dawei, the chief analyst of Centaline Property told The Beijing News. At present, most of the low-priced properties are converted from rundown houses in suburban areas. Hegang has launched projects to transform coal mining shantytowns, mining subsidence areas, urban shantytowns and villages in the city since 2008, according to the Hegang Municipal People's Government in January 2018. A total of 97,000 households have been demolished, with 93,000 households resettled and subsidized since 2008, achieving a basic balance between supply and demand, Zhou Zhigang, deputy director of Hegang Affordable Housing Service Center, told the Guangzhou-based newspaper New Express Daily.However, resettled houses built in shantytowns are not allowed to be bought or sold for five years. Many houses bought and sold privately are not licensed for property rights. Sellers can only sign agreements with buyers, which is another reason for the emergence of low-priced houses, Zhou said. Yin Zhongli, research fellow of Institute of Finance and Banking under the Chinese Academy of Social Science, told The Beijing News that there are signs of a general dislocation in government affordable housing resettlement. The population is concentrated in large and medium-sized cities, and the transformation of shantytowns is mainly carried out in small and medium-sized cities. Instead of adjusting urban planning, the policy-making organs of the cities with serious population outflows have continuously increased the scale of urban development. At some point, supply and demand will reverse, Yin said. New developmentHegang has been exploring methods to bring about urban transformation for many years. In recent years, Hegang has successively closed local small coal mines, integrated coal resources, and accelerated the cultivation of alternative industries, one of which is graphene. In recent years, the local government has made plans to develop five industrial chains, including new energy materials and graphene materials, and to promote the expansion of graphene powder into new application fields, such as battery cathode materials, Liu Lei, director of the Hegang Municipal Development and Reform Commission told the Xinhua News Agency.Through the implementation of housing subsidies, healthcare and other preferential policies in 2017, Hegang has attracted hundreds of master's degree students, outstanding and high-level talents at home and abroad back to work in Hegang, according to the China News Service."I am confident in the future of my city. Environment is getting better and better these years, with less coal mines and more trees. My life is more comfortable," Tian told the Global Times.Newspaper headline: Concern over house price drop in Hegang Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth