Experts warn people to stay far away from extreme PUA and call for regulation of the industry. Photo: ICWomen who yearn for true love but cannot tell if her lover is sincere or not can get an online tutor now - the first video game in China that teaches girls to identify pick-up artists (PUA), which has received mixed reactions online. Dating back to the 1970s, PUA originally referred to men who had systematically studied, practiced and improved their emotional intelligence. But it now means "bad men" who use techniques to deceive and make use of women, said a statement provided to the Global Times by the game's developer.The player would act as a female journalist named Zhuang Zhou, who investigates the tricks of a Chinese PUA group by taking risks getting along with the PUAs.Players would meet three kinds of PUAs (with settings similar to Jamie Dornan's role in Fifty Shades of Grey, Casanova and Shakespeare-like figures) in the three dating scenes which are common in daily life, including downloading the dating application, joining a dating event with a colleague, and visiting an art exhibit, the game shows. In the game, the PUA always uses methods to seduce women, who become curious, crushed and obedient, said one of the anonymous game developers in Guangzhou, South China's Guangdong Province.One loses the game once the PUA notices that the players are not interested in him.A total of 309,510 people have played the game as of press time, according to the game's platform. Many said it could help players identify PUA tricks in real life. Another player wrote that after playing the game, she found herself trapped in an uncertain relationship in real life. "If you want to keep away from PUAs, please remember to love yourselves!" a player, who claimed she had passed the game, said on Sina Weibo. The game, released in April, was a graduation project developed by four female students at the school of journalism and communication of Guangzhou-based Jinan University.The school of the journalism and communication of Jinan University told the Global Times on Tuesday that the university hopes the project corrects social values, guides public opinion and further promotes social progress.As the PUA tricks expand, cheat women and even violate laws, the developer noted the game would teach women about the tricks the PUAs use and to be more careful when falling in love. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth