Twenty-four Chinese students studying in the southern part of the United States on Saturday received an award that recognized their academic excellence at a ceremony held by the Chinese Consulate General in Houston, US state of Texas. Chinese Consul General in Houston Li Qiangmin presented the 2018 Chinese Government Award for Outstanding Self-Financed Students Abroad to the winners, saying the award aimed to encourage the self-financed students to study hard. Saturday also marked the centenary of the May Fourth Movement in China, which is widely considered a great patriotic and revolutionary campaign pioneered by advanced young intellectuals and joined by people from all walks of life to resolutely fight imperialism and feudalism. The movement has inspired the ambition and confidence of the Chinese people and nation to realize national rejuvenation. The Chinese consul general said that on this special day, it is of special significance to cherish the memory of the May Fourth Movement, to embrace and foster the spirit of the movement, and to keep in mind the mission of Chinese youths in the new era. "Young people are the future of the world and the Sino-US relations. The Chinese Dream is the Chinese people's dream of happiness and is closely connected with the dreams of all peoples," he said. Li encouraged young Chinese students to help promote communication and cooperation between China and the United States and make greater efforts to promote global peace and prosperity. Wang Fen, a professor of medicine at Texas A&M University, has participated in the award's review process for five years. He said that as the popularity of this award continues to grow over the years, the number of applicants has increased and the competition has become increasingly fierce. "We have received more than 100 applications this year, with the academic backgrounds ranging from chemistry to medical science, architecture, engineering and some social science majors. All of the applicants are outstanding students," he said. "I hope they will work hard and make greater achievements in their careers." Tian Fei, a PhD student at the University of Houston, is one of the award winners. He told Xinhua that winning the award has given him greater confidence. "My past achievements have been recognized and I have thus become more confident. I feel that what I have done in the past are meaningful," he said. Zhang Youlang, a PhD student in political science at Texas A&M University, is the only award winner majoring in social science. He plans to return to China after graduation. "Now China's research environment and conditions are as good as those of foreign countries. Research conducted in China can also reach the world's top level. Therefore, young scholars are very motivated to go back to China," he noted. The Chinese Government Award for Outstanding Self-Financed Students Abroad is a scholarship set up by the China Scholarship Council in 2003 to honor overseas Chinese students with outstanding academic accomplishments. According to official statistics, 500 Chinese students studying abroad received the scholarship in 2018. There are around 400,000 Chinese students studying in US colleges and universities, about 60,000 of whom are in the southern region of the United States. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun