Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said on Wednesday that Iran will stop sending out its enriched uranium and heavy water product. "It doesn't mean that Iran leaves the nuclear agreement, known as Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA)," Rouhani said in a televised speech on Wednesday. Under the nuclear deal clinched between Iran and world's six major powers in 2015, Iran accepted to send out its low-grade enriched uranium once its production exceeded 300 kg. Besides, Iran had to sell the extra amount heavy water product beyond 130 tons. In a statement on Wednesday, Iran's Supreme National Security Council (SNSC) said that the country will no longer fulfill some of its obligations under the 2015 nuclear deal. "At the current stage, we are not committed to complying with the restrictions on the enriched uranium reserves and heavy water supplies," the statement was quoted as reading by Tasnim news agency. The statement also set a 60-day deadline for the remaining parties to the deal to fulfill their obligations, particularly in preserving Iran's interests in the areas of banking and oil. On Wednesday, Rouhani also stressed that Iran will wait for 60 days to start negotiations with the signatories of the nuclear deal over its interests enshrined by the nuclear deal, including Iran's oil sales and international banking transactions. In case Iran achieves no results, it will do two more counter-measures to the US withdrawal from the deal, he said. "Under the nuclear deal, Iran accepted to keep the level of its enriched uranium at 3.67 percent. After 60 days (if there is no result for talks), we will not honor the level for uranium enrichment," said Rouhani. At that time, Iran will also start to complete the Arak Heavy Water establishment, he added. The Iranian president warned that in case some countries attempt to return Iranian nuclear dossier to the UN Security Council, Iran will respond "in a very strong manner." US President Donald Trump pulled Washington out the Iranian international nuclear deal in May last year and returned energy and financial sanctions against the Islamic republic. Trump administration aims to push Iran to the negotiation table by exerting "maximum pressures," Washington seeks to seal a new nuclear deal with Iran to further curb Iran's nuclear program, and to stop Iran ballistic missile tests. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun