A visitor takes photos of her daughter at a lion dance booth during the 2019 U.S.-China Cultural Tourism Festival in Las Vegas, the United States, May 11, 2019. The 2019 U.S.-China Cultural Tourism Festival opened Friday in Las Vegas, the U.S. state of Nevada, aiming to expand cultural and tourism exchanges between the two countries. The three-day festival consists of various themes, including Chinese and American tourist cities, scenic spots, world heritage and intangible cultural heritage. It has attracted the attendance of 145 exhibitors from Chinese and American cultural, tourism and handicraft industries, with 65 of them coming from China, according to Las Vegas Committee of Enterprise and Commerce United, organizer of the event. (Photo:Xinhua) 

Flying Tigers veterans (front) attend the opening ceremony of the 2019 U.S.-China Cultural Tourism Festival in Las Vegas, the United States, May 10, 2019. The 2019 U.S.-China Cultural Tourism Festival opened Friday in Las Vegas, the U.S. state of Nevada, aiming to expand cultural and tourism exchanges between the two countries. The three-day festival consists of various themes, including Chinese and American tourist cities, scenic spots, world heritage and intangible cultural heritage. It has attracted the attendance of 145 exhibitors from Chinese and American cultural, tourism and handicraft industries, with 65 of them coming from China, according to Las Vegas Committee of Enterprise and Commerce United, organizer of the event. (Photo:Xinhua) 

A visitor selects Terracotta Warrior souvenirs at the 2019 U.S.-China Cultural Tourism Festival in Las Vegas, the United States, May 11, 2019. The 2019 U.S.-China Cultural Tourism Festival opened Friday in Las Vegas, the U.S. state of Nevada, aiming to expand cultural and tourism exchanges between the two countries. The three-day festival consists of various themes, including Chinese and American tourist cities, scenic spots, world heritage and intangible cultural heritage. It has attracted the attendance of 145 exhibitors from Chinese and American cultural, tourism and handicraft industries, with 65 of them coming from China, according to Las Vegas Committee of Enterprise and Commerce United, organizer of the event. (Photo:Xinhua) 

Jiang Furong (R), representative inheritor of China's intangible cultural heritage Qiang traditional grass weaving, shows grass weaving products to children at the 2019 U.S.-China Cultural Tourism Festival in Las Vegas, the United States, May 11, 2019. The 2019 U.S.-China Cultural Tourism Festival opened Friday in Las Vegas, the U.S. state of Nevada, aiming to expand cultural and tourism exchanges between the two countries. The three-day festival consists of various themes, including Chinese and American tourist cities, scenic spots, world heritage and intangible cultural heritage. It has attracted the attendance of 145 exhibitors from Chinese and American cultural, tourism and handicraft industries, with 65 of them coming from China, according to Las Vegas Committee of Enterprise and Commerce United, organizer of the event. (Photo:Xinhua) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth