The government of Nanyang, Central China's Henan Province said Friday morning that a controversial water-hydrogen engine produced by a local company has not been approved yet, after news of such engine stirred widespread suspicion.A vehicle producer in Nanyang claimed it successfully produced an engine that can be powered by only water and hydrogen fuel.The Nanyang Daily reported that Zhang Wenshen, the secretary of the Party Committee of Nanyang and Huo Haosheng, the mayor of Nanyang both visited the factory on Wednesday in recognition of the project.However, on Friday morning, the Industry and Information Technology Bureau in Nanyang told The Beijing News that the news was mistakenly reported.The engine producer China Youngman Automobile Group Co. inked a cooperation deal in September 2018 with the Nanyang government for research and production in Nanyang.According to the original reports, such an engine means a vehicle can run using only water. The magical engine stirred up wide speculation on Chinese social media, and analysts said the hydrogen fuel engine using water as fuel is more like a gimmick. According to Pang Qingnian, the head of the engine producer China Youngman Automobile Group Co, the special conversion settings in the car convert water into hydrogen and uses the hydrogen fuel to generate electricity which then powers the vehicle. The biggest secret of water-hydrogen fuel vehicles is a special catalyst. Under the chemical reaction of this special catalyst, water can be converted into hydrogen, Pang told the media.Pang said such a vehicle can achieve a cruising range of between 500 to 1,000 kilometers without refueling and charging. A member of staff in the headquarters of the Youngman company in Zhejiang Province told the Global Times the main principle of the engine depends on the catalyst, a metal catalyst, without elaborating more.The working principle gained wide suspicion among analysts. Song Jian, a research fellow at the Department of Automotive Engineering, Tsinghua University, told the Global Times that a perpetual motion machine is of no possibility.The key of the water-hydrogen fuel vehicle is the process of electrolyzing water to produce hydrogen, and then using the fuel cell to generate electricity. This process is definitely not worth the cost, because there will be a lot of energy loss in the process, Song said. Even for the most efficient platinum electrode, energy losses can reach 50 percent, he said. Due to the high cost, there is almost no market for water-hydrogen fuel vehicles. A hydrogen fuel cell car is twice as expensive as an electric car, and hydrogen fuel itself is three times more expensive than gasoline, Song said.Lin Boqiang, director of the China Center for Energy Economics Research at Xiamen University shared a similar opinion. He told the Global Times on Friday that the vehicle, using water and some special catalyst, seems like a gimmick, which is of high risk and unlikely to commercialize.The most reliable hydrogen-powered engine is using new energy such as solar power to generate hydrogen in the first place and then uses the stored hydrogen to power a vehicle. Hydrogen energy is considered an "absolutely clean" energy as water is the only by-product being produced and consumed. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star