A live television debate next week between two female anchors of the US and China on the ongoing trade war triggered by Trump's high tariffs, has generated interest in both countries. CGTN's Liu Xin agreed to appear on the show of Fox Business' Trish Regan as a guest, and they promised to stage an "HONEST debate on trade." Viewers on both sides of the Pacific believe the debate could catch fire if either of the two women loses her temper and rants aloud or uses incendiary language. The debate is likely to take place at 8:00 am Thursday Beijing time, which is 8:00 pm Wednesday EST. The two got into a tussle earlier on TV as they disagreed on the trade war. Regan said on her show that the US is a victim of the trade relationship between China and the US, and said that her country didn't have a choice but to wage a war with China.Liu Xin picked up the topic on her TV program, and said that Regan's speech was based on questionable and inaccurate information, and that Regan quoted data based on an estimate released by a non-profit US organization "without being verified independently."Immediately, Regan, increasingly angry and agitated, fired back on her program, saying she and all American women are "damn smart." More netizens have been drawn to their fight. One of them, calling himself John, said: "Regan is wickedly smart and smoking hot." And another said, "Democrats coined the phrase 'state media' to describe Fox. Now Fox is using the same phrase against CGTN. Irony!"Nevertheless, Chinese netizens hope their upcoming debate would be on good terms. "Yes, the two could use great logic and decent language," a netizen said on Weibo, China's Twitter-like social media platform.Global Times Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star