Tom Duke, Minister Counsellor at Department of International Trade and British Embassy Beijing, speaks with Chinese journalists in Beijing on Friday. Photo: Courtesy of Department of International Trade and British Embassy BeijingChina and the UK are "natural partners" for cooperation in third-country projects even if the UK hasn't signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) with China, a UK diplomat said on Friday.Tom Duke, Minister Counsellor at Department of International Trade and British Embassy Beijing, made the remarks at a press conference on Friday in Beijing. The UK has not signed a BRI MOU, but "it doesn't mean we are not cooperating with China on practical projects in other countries around the world," he said.The two countries are "natural partners" for cooperation in other countries,  because "the UK has a long history of supporting, delivering and advising international projects that provide the highest possible standards," Duke said.He added that UK finance minister Philip Hammond attended the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation in April. The UK diplomat's press conference was held two days after US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo's speech in London, in which Pompeo urged the UK to be tough on the China-proposed BRI. The Financial Times reported on Thursday that Pompeo spoke at a London conference marking the 40th anniversary of Margaret Thatcher's rise to power. He told British officials, "Would she [Thatcher] welcome the Belt and Road Initiative without demanding absolute transparency and the highest standards? Would she allow China to control the internet of the future?"On the internet, especially on 5G network cooperation with China, Duke said that "For many years now, the UK has welcomed Huawei investment in the UK." He said that "The UK government is undergoing a review of the security of the supply chain for this next generation communication equipment [Huawei 5G network]… it is focused on making sure the supply chain is secure and diverse.""It is important that that review is not country-specific and not company-specific," he said. "So it is absolutely not focused on China or any particular Chinese company." Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth