The development of the Sino-Dutch relations has brought tangible benefits to both peoples and promises greater potential for further cooperation in a wider scope of fields, Chinese Ambassador to the Netherlands Xu Hong has said. In a recent interview with Xinhua, Xu called on both countries to implement the consensuses reached by their leaders, promote pragmatic cooperation under the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), and create favorable conditions for bilateral exchanges and cooperation in all fields. Xu noted that an upcoming visit by Chinese Vice President Wang Qishan at the invitation of Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte is an important event of high-level exchanges. The bilateral ties, which have been growing continuously and rapidly in recent years, have entered its best period in history. "We both attach greater importance to our relations as bilateral cooperation grows deeper and wider, as evidenced by close high-level interactions, deepening practical cooperation in all fields and high-quality people-to-people exchanges," the diplomat said. The two countries have maintained frequent and close high-level exchanges, and the deepening political mutual trust has "shed light on" the development of the ties, he said. Xu pointed out that bilateral cooperation has become wider and deeper in recent years, particularly since the launch of the BRI. In 2018, bilateral trade volume amounted to about 85.2 billion US dollars, a record high. The Netherlands is China's second largest trading partner in the European Union. Several express railways linking the two countries are in operation. Half of Chinese container ships to Europe make their first call at the Port of Rotterdam. Pragmatic cooperation is fruitful and keeps going forward. "Open cooperation, mutual benefit and win-win strike as powerful notes in our relations," said Xu. As to people-to-people exchanges, the diplomat stressed "high quality" as the key. Great Panda Wu Wen and Xing Ya have been residing in the Netherlands for over two years and won numerous fans. About 100 direct passenger and cargo flights connect Amsterdam and seven Chinese cities every week. Every year some 350,000 Chinese tourists travel to the Netherlands. Chinese cultural center in The Hague and more than 10 Confucius Institutes and Confucius Classrooms have been established. Frequent and close exchanges are underway in culture, eduction, arts and sports. Xu noted the two countries have a long history of friendly exchanges, and set an example of mutually beneficial and win-win cooperation. Meanwhile, both countries firmly uphold multilateralism and free trade. "Facing the disturbing turbulence of unilateralism and protectionism, as well as risks brought by numerous factors of uncertainty, by strengthening our cooperation, we will contribute to the consolidation of the dike defending multilateralism, free trade and a world economy based on openness, to the maintaining of international trade system, and to the stability and development of the world," he said. China and the Netherlands joining hands can also help address common challenges such as climate change and the aging problem, he added. The Chinese diplomat pointed out that Chinese authorities recently announced new measures to deepen reform and opening-up. In April, President Xi Jinping announced at the second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation that China will promote a new round of high-level opening-up, strengthen international cooperation in intellectual property rights protection, increase imports of goods and services on a larger scale, and more effectively coordinate on international macroeconomic policies. In March, China passed the Foreign Investment Law, which has improved the management and protection of foreign investors. Xu said the aforementioned measures will surely create a better legislative and policy environment for promoting economic and trade cooperation, in which Dutch enterprises operating in China will find even more opportunities and support. The ambassador said he hopes that the Netherlands will work with China to provide an open, fair and non-discriminative environment for investors of the two countries, deepen the understanding and friendship between the two peoples, and promote a continuous and solid growth of bilateral ties based on mutual respect and mutual benefit. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star