Asian Cultural Festival was held Saturday in Chicago's Chinatown square, to celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. Hundreds of people attended the annual event including some Chinese community leaders, municipal officials and diplomats from Chinese Consulate in Chicago. The festival was co-hosted by Chinese American Association at Greater Chicago (CAAGC) and Midwest Asian Health Association (MAHA). In the festival, there are many artistic groups preforming at the stage. Dancing dragon and lions attracted many visitors. Chinese cultural activities like folk dance, Chinese music instruments playing, Chinese calligraphy and folk paper-cut were also shown at Chinatown square. On both sides of the square, professional volunteers from Midwest Asian Health Association offer free medical examinations like ear, nose, throat and vision consultation, osteoporosis screening, and colorectal education and screening. "Every May, CAAGC organizes different kinds of events to celebrate these important days for Asian Americans. Today, we presents traditional dancing, singing, calligraphy and painting, to promote colorful Chinese culture to American society, and we encourage Chinese community to contribute more to the development of the United States." Zhen Zheng, chairwoman of CAAGC addressed the audience. In the opening ceremony, Chinese consul general in Chicago Zhao Jian said, "This year marks 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and the United States. Good relationship between the two countries serves the common interests of the two peoples and is conducive to world peace, stability and prosperity." "I hope Chinese community in Chicago would continue to support the development of bilateral relations between China and the Unites States, making contributions to local society," Zhao said. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth