A Chinese energy industry insider has hailed the offshore Technology Conference (OTC), saying that the world's largest annual oil and gas trade show serves as a wonderful platform for global companies to learn and showcase advanced technologies. Liu Guanghua, vice president of China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) Engineering & Technology Corporation Ltd., said the popularity of CNPC, China's largest oil and gas producer and supplier, has increased over the years thanks to its attendance at OTC for decades. OTC is held in the US energy capital of Houston from Monday through Thursday. Chinese participants in the event include state-run companies as well as private enterprises from across the country. "On the one hand, it provides us with an opportunity to learn advanced technologies from others. On the other hand, it is a good platform to showcase our products. These are the two main goals for us to attend OTC," Liu told Xinhua. Liu said the CNPC is committed to cooperating with the United States and European countries in the field of energy, including buying blocks and export technologies. "CNPC's collaborations with Middle East countries have been proved to be successful and we have become operators in some projects," he said. "I'm optimistic about cooperation with the United States and they need us, too." The program of the four-day OTC includes more than 80 technical sessions, industry breakfasts and themed luncheons covering a wide range of topics. This year's new program, Around the World Series, features global industry leaders from Australia, Canada, France, Ghana, Guyana, Israel, Mexico, Norway, and the United Kingdom to discuss new licensing and business opportunities, as well as recently introduced technologies. Founded in 1969, OTC provides a platform for energy professionals to exchange thoughts to advance scientific and technical knowledge on offshore resources and environmental matters. CNPC is one of the world's major oilfield service providers and a globally reputed contractor in engineering construction. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth