US and Chinese trading partners sought to promote trade and investment opportunities between Chinese regions and the US western state of Utah at a forum held on Saturday. At the Utah-China Trade and Investment Forum, organized by World Trade Center Utah in partnership with the China Chamber of International Commerce, speakers discussed opportunities and challenges in expanding businesses, and highlighted Utah and China's long-standing educational and cultural relations. In a congratulatory message read at the forum, Chinese ambassador to the United States Cui Tiankai said the China-US relationship can provide tangible benefits to the people, and cooperation on matters related to trade and economy serve as both the anchor and propeller of this relationship. "China-US relations are at a critical juncture and it is important that we remember that our two countries always stand to gain from cooperation and lose from confrontation. There is no better option than continued cooperation," Cui said in the message. The forum demonstrated that sub-national governments, private sector stakeholders, and respective citizens have high expectations for the China-US relationship, he added. Chinese participants to the forum covered companies in various fields, including culture, tourism, manufacturing, education and real estate, said Zhao Zhenge, general representative of the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade in its US office. "Engaging in candid discussions with trade partners is beneficial to increase and generate trade, investment, education and innovation opportunities for Utah businesses," said Utah Senate President Stuart Adams at the forum. The goal is to expand job creation, support current professions, fuel the economy of Utah, and increase living standards, Adams added. China is one of Utah's most important trading partners. Utah's trade with China totaled about 4 billion US dollars in 2018, and Chinese tourists bring more than 140 million dollars into Utah's economy each year, according to the organizers of the forum. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth