Economist Gitanas Nauseda and former Lithuania's finance minister Ingrida Simonyte head to the presidential runoff in two weeks after Sunday's ballot, preliminary results announced by the country's Central Electoral Commission (VRK) showed early morning on Monday. According to the VRK data after votes in 1630 polling stations out of the total 1972 stations counted, Nauseda lead the race with 31.2 percent of voters' support, while Simonyte ranked second with 27.1 percent. Incumbent Prime Minister Saulius Skvernelis received 22.2 percent of the votes and admitted defeat. Presidential frontrunner, independent candidate Nauseda expressed his gratitude to supporters. "At the moment, the trend is obviously good. I would like to thank all the people who supported us, who accepted the message that we have sent to the society. Indeed, we want to create a state of welfare in Lithuania, we seek for more political peace, decision making in our country rather than pointless hustle," Nauseda told supporters at his election headquarters. Simonyte, backed by Lithuania's main right-wing party Homeland Union, stated that the theory about two right wing candidates in the second round of the elections has materialized. "It seems this scenario will happen in the second round. Thank you all for your votes. Two weeks of hard work is ahead of us," Simonyte told journalists at her election headquarters Sunday night. Earlier on election night, PM Skvernelis, who was backed in the election by the ruling Lithuania's Farmers and Greens Union, repeatedly pledged he would quit from the office if the vote was unsuccessful. "If I don't make it to the second round, I will resign. These are not empty words," Skvernelis told supporters. On Sunday, Lithuania also held two binding referendums, on dual citizenship and downsizing the country's parliament. The outcome of both referendums is due on Monday morning. The second round of the presidential elections scheduled for May 26, when European Parliament elections are also due to be held. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth