Hard drives used in film piracy on display at the conference in Yangzhou on April 29 Photo: Wang Qi/GT  

Promotional material for The Wandering Earth Photo: IC 

Police officer Ke Lu from China's Public Security Bureau introduces the methods of film piracy to visitors at a conference in Yangzhou, East China's Jiangsu Province, on April 29. Photo: Wang Qi/GT Have you ever watched a pirated film? As a global issue, film and television piracy is not only limited to selling illegal DVDs. In recent years, with the ubiquitousness of the internet and various digital applications, authorities have faced many challenges when it comes to cracking down on piracy.Ceaseless efforts on behalf of police officials and the domestic film industry have proven to be effective but it's still not enough.China's Ministry of Public Security held a press conference on April 29 in Yangzhou, East China's Jiangsu Province, following World Intellectual Property Day three days before, to highlight the achievements made in stopping the spread of film piracy this year. In February, eight films that opened at the domestic box office during the Chinese New Year were found to have been pirated, including the box-office smash hit The Wandering Earth. Since then, China's Ministry of Public Security has increased efforts to combat piracy. According to an official statement issued at the press conference, 251 suspects have been arrested in 25 film piracy cases."The series of events has infringed not only upon the legitimate rights and interests of film producers and content creators, but also the development of the film industry," said Li Jingsheng, head of the Bureau of Security Administration under the Ministry of Public Security.Additionally, 361 pirated video websites and 57 apps were shut down. Over 14,000 items and components used to pirate films were discovered, with the combined evidence worth some $34 million.Global concernHit films are typically the victims of copyright infringement even when they are protected by the authorities. Although The Wandering Earth, the second-highest earning film in Chinese history, was included on the National Copyright Administration of China's list of " key works to receive copyright protection in 2019," this did not put the film's producers at ease. "We did not celebrate the box-office success but put our efforts into stopping piracy. By conservative estimates, there were more than 20 million pirated internet views," Gong Geer, the film's producer, said during an interview with Beijing Youth Daily in February. During the Chinese New Year in the mainland the average price for a movie ticket was 40 yuan ($6). Calculating from this, The Wandering Earth lost roughly $120 million to piracy.It seems that illegitimate channels are also rampant in the US. The US Department of State's shareamerica.gov once noted that about 981 million pirated films and TV dramas were downloaded in the US in 2016, earning billions in pirated revenue. The UK has similar issues with film piracy. According to the research from French market research and a consulting firm Ipsos, in 2014, 30 percent of British people surveyed admitted they had engaged in piracy by buying bootleg DVDs or downloading film and television content. It was estimated the UK film industry loses almost $650 million annually as a result of piracy, the Guardian reported. Impact on creatorsAlthough efforts have increased to stop the spread of film piracy, the issue continues to thwart the film industry. Generating a record-breaking $115 million in pre-sale tickets, the Marvel blockbuster Avengers 4: Endgame premiered in Chinese mainland cinemas on April 24, earning $66.7 million on its opening day.As it turns out, piracy grows right along with box-office revenue. According to a report from National Business Daily, 18 hours after the film's premiere, a total of 2,136 pirated links were discovered, double the amount of pirated links for Avengers: Infinity War (2018).Discussion about piracy quickly spread on Chinese social media platform Sina Weibo. A few comments read, "cinema tickets are expensive," and "pirated videos promote the spread of films," yet most disagreed."I hope that everyone will establish copyright awareness and let the hard-working filmmakers get the rewards they deserve," said one netizen, Qibuzhihou.  "Thirty or 40 yuan is not that expensive, and the audiovisual experience at the cinema is fantastic," said another netizen, Coach Wen.Industry insiders and actors Wu Jing, Shen Teng, and Huang Bo attended the press conference to show their support for protecting the film industry from piracy.  "Piracy greatly undermines the enthusiasm of the content creators and the development of our film market," said Huang. "It [film piracy] is disrespectful to every filmmaker… it is just like my child was stolen," Shen said. Chinese writer and director, Han Han stressed the importance of copyright awareness and the time needed to cultivate this awareness in China. "When I was growing up, we watched videotapes or Hong Kong film discs. At that time, copyright awareness was weak," Han told the Global Times. "I won't deny that we have watched pirated films before, but I don't think this is something to be proud of.""The film culture and film industry system in our country is developing, so this is something that must be addressed," said Han.Newspaper headline: Pirates of the box office Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun