Hengyi Industries Sdn Bhd, a joint venture between China and Brunei, pledged on Wednesday to carry out tree planting efforts across a total land area of 200 hectares in the near future as one of its initiatives to protect Brunei's environment. Hengyi Industries CEO Chen Liancai told Xinhua that such tree planting programs play a vital role as the company will enter its operation phase this year. Hengyi Industries is a joint venture between China's Zhejiang Hengyi Group Co. Ltd. and Damai Holdings - a wholly owned subsidiary under Brunei government's Strategic Development Capital Fund - owning 70 percent and 30 percent respectively. Hengyi's investment into Brunei's Pulau Muara Besar (PMB) is the largest foreign direct investment into Brunei from China so far, which is expected to help Brunei upgrade its industries, alleviate its dependency on oil export and boost economic and trade cooperation between Brunei and China. The oil refinery and petrochemical plant at PMB is expected to begin operations by the year end and is estimated to contribute 1.33 billion US dollars to Brunei's GDP in its first year of operation. "We would like to do our part in contributing to the environment by initiating this tree planting program," said Chen. "May the trees we plant serve as a reminder of our commitment towards a sustainable future and inspire everyone to protect and preserve the environment," he said. The program kicked off with the planting of some 500 tree saplings in an area of 0.5 hectares at the Berakas Forest Reserve. Approximately 120 people including Hengyi Industries' staff and personnel, government officials and volunteers from non-profit organizations participated in Wednesday's tree planting event. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun