An Afghan woman receives medical treatment at the Mirwais Regional Hospital in Kandahar, Afghanistan, May 4, 2019. The Mirwais Regional Hospital, locally known as the "Chinese Hospital", was built by China in 1974 and put into operation in 1979 on 44 acres of land in Kandahar, the largest city in the southern region as a gift to the Afghan people. The hospital is the largest health center in Afghanistan's southern region and provides almost all kinds of services to patients ranging from diagnosis of diseases to surgery of war victims, childcare and maternity. (Photo: Xinhua) 

Afghan doctors perform an operation at the Mirwais Regional Hospital in Kandahar, Afghanistan, May 4, 2019. The Mirwais Regional Hospital, locally known as the "Chinese Hospital", was built by China in 1974 and put into operation in 1979 on 44 acres of land in Kandahar, the largest city in the southern region as a gift to the Afghan people. The hospital is the largest health center in Afghanistan's southern region and provides almost all kinds of services to patients ranging from diagnosis of diseases to surgery of war victims, childcare and maternity. (Photo: Xinhua) 

People wait at the Mirwais Regional Hospital in Kandahar, Afghanistan, May 4, 2019. The Mirwais Regional Hospital, locally known as the "Chinese Hospital", was built by China in 1974 and put into operation in 1979 on 44 acres of land in Kandahar, the largest city in the southern region as a gift to the Afghan people. The hospital is the largest health center in Afghanistan's southern region and provides almost all kinds of services to patients ranging from diagnosis of diseases to surgery of war victims, childcare and maternity. (Photo: Xinhua) 

People carry a man for medical treatment at the Mirwais Regional Hospital in Kandahar, Afghanistan, May 4, 2019. The Mirwais Regional Hospital, locally known as the "Chinese Hospital", was built by China in 1974 and put into operation in 1979 on 44 acres of land in Kandahar, the largest city in the southern region as a gift to the Afghan people. The hospital is the largest health center in Afghanistan's southern region and provides almost all kinds of services to patients ranging from diagnosis of diseases to surgery of war victims, childcare and maternity. (Photo: Xinhua) 

An Afghan man receives medical treatment at the Mirwais Regional Hospital in Kandahar, Afghanistan, May 4, 2019. The Mirwais Regional Hospital, locally known as the "Chinese Hospital", was built by China in 1974 and put into operation in 1979 on 44 acres of land in Kandahar, the largest city in the southern region as a gift to the Afghan people. The hospital is the largest health center in Afghanistan's southern region and provides almost all kinds of services to patients ranging from diagnosis of diseases to surgery of war victims, childcare and maternity. (Photo: Xinhua) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun