All recommendations to enhance the sharing of best practice and regional cooperation have been adopted by the 4th South Pacific Defense Ministers Meeting (SPDMM) held in Nadi, Fiji's third largest city, over the past three days. Fijian Defense Minister Inia Seruiratu said Friday that this includes New Zealand's proposal to host a Climate Change and Defense Working Group Meeting in 2020 to assist member countries to progress outcomes. Seruiratu said the ministers also requested Chile's Minister of Defense to explore the possibility to include a panel to discuss and propose how defense can support mitigation efforts against climate change, as part of COP25 in 2019. Australia has also proposed to make the meeting an annual forum and offered to host the 5th SPDMM in 2020. The SPDMM is the only forum available for defense ministers, chiefs of defense and their respective representatives to discuss the key security priorities of the Pacific region. Seruiratu said the SPDMM through a series of bilateral meetings has focused on the importance of responding to both traditional and non-traditional security threats that not only affect them as individual states but collectively as a region. "We collectively recognized the evolving geo-politics of the region and the rapidly shifting and complex dynamics influencing regional security." Seruiratu said this includes transnational and cyber security threats, maritime security challenges, and natural disasters amongst others. The ministers discussed at length the effects of climate change which remains as the single greatest threat to the livelihood, security and wellbeing of Pacific peoples. The forum appreciated a French-led study conducted in collaboration with all SPDMM members to highlight the increasingly severe effects of Climate Change and their impact on security in the region. Besides Fiji, attending the meeting were representatives from Australia, New Zealand, Chile, France, Papua New Guinea and Tonga with the United States and Britain as observers. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth