Performers from different countries sing "Our Asia," the theme song of the Asian Culture Carnival. Photo: Li Hao/GTThe Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations (CDAC) opened on Wednesday in Beijing with about 2,000 guests from 47 Asian countries. A gala called Asian Culture Carnival was staged Wednesday night in the Beijing National Stadium, also known as Bird's Nest. The show is one of the most important activities of CDAC which presented a "professional, international and high-level banquet of culture and art," according to the show's organizer, China Media Group.Well-known artists and pop stars in and out of Asia gathered at the gala. Legendary actor Jackie Chan and internationally renowned pianist Lang Lang both performed. Other performers from Asian countries like Jung Ji-hoon (known as "Rain") from South Korea, Do To Hoa from Vietnam and Lim Jun Jie (known as "JJ Lin") from Singapore, all took part in the carnival. Italian singer Andrea Bocelli also performed "Nessun Dorma."   Even if the languages and ethnic customs of the show were different, they all promoted Asian cultural prosperity. Singers and dancers from various countries performed their unique characteristics. Chinese artists performed Peking Opera, Pakistani performers sang a ballad, and Japanese performers played the traditional Japanese drum "Wadaiko." 

Chinese artists and international enthusiasts of Peking Opera perform "An Era of Prosperity." Photo: Li Hao/GT

Drummers from China, Japan and South Korea perform "The Grand Regatta." Photo: Li Hao/GT


Dancers from different countries in Asia perform "Passion of Joy." Photo: Li Hao/GT 

Performers from Cambodia, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Malaysia, Jordan, the Philippines and India present "A Panorama of Asia." Photos: Li Hao/GT

Performers from Cambodia, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Malaysia, Jordan, the Philippines and India present "A Panorama of Asia." Photos: Li Hao/GT

 Newspaper headline: Cultural carnival Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starUnrealistic expectations thwart Chinese job recruitersDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los Angeles