China's leading liquor brand Kweichow Moutai has launched a promotion event in Tanzania's commercial capital Dar es Salaam in a bid to further tap the African market. In November 2017, Moutai was first introduced in the African market in Cape Town, South Africa. This is the second time Moutai has set foot on the wonderful continent of Africa, said Wang Yan, board member of Moutai Group at the event on Thursday night themed "Cultural Moutai, Colorful Guizhou." The event was rolled out with an official gala attended by diplomats, government officials, as well as cultural and business representatives from both China and Tanzania. Former Tanzanian Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda said the event was well aligned with the aspirations of the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) during the launching ceremony. He said the coming of Moutai Group in Tanzania for a trade mission was in line with the BRI, which is aimed at building a trade and infrastructure network connecting Asia with Europe and Africa along ancient trade routes. "Moutai Group is with us today on a business mission to introduce Chinese liquor Moutai. It is a renowned drink worldwide," said Pinda. China's outlook on foreign affairs has continued to uphold the concept of joint development and cooperation, advocating sincerity, good faith and shared business interests, said Pinda. He said within a period of 40 years China has made tremendous progress economically to the extent that it was ranked as the second largest economic power globally. The introduction of Moutai Group in Tanzania was followed with the establishment of the first African Moutai Fans Alliance, deepening the vision of extensive and shared benefits and will enhance cooperation among all African countries. In 2018, the revenue of Moutai Group hit 12.6 billion US dollars, net profit reached 5.8 billion US dollars and tax revenue 5.6 billion US dollars. The total assets exceeded 30 billion US dollars, according to statistics from Moutai Group. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth