The Chinese version of A Song of Ice and Fire Photo: Courtesy of the Chongqing Publishing Group  

Promotional material for Game of Thrones Photo: IC The ending of Game of Thrones has seemingly "disappointed" many fans, even the translators of the Chinese version of A Song of Ice and Fire, the book series upon which the show was based. When asked what word he would use to describe the final season of Game of Thrones, Qu Chang, one of the main translators of A Song of Ice and Fire, responded with "confusing, I think." "I do not quite understand the deaths of some characters in the last season. It seems they needed to die for some reason but the story did not explain it very clearly," Qu told the Global Times. Qu is not alone in his feelings about the show, as many fans of the series have expressed that they were let down by the last season. Fortunately, there is still hope, as the author of the books, George R.R. Martin, has not yet completed writing the series.Many netizens on Sina Weibo have stated that they are looking forward to the remaining books even more now due to the "terrible" and "crap" ending of the TV drama. "We believe Martin can make it better," one netizen commented in a post."I really appreciate Martin's writing style as he does not give a protagonist's aura to the characters in his novels, which is very special and different compared to other works. I was so surprised that the so-called protagonist of the first novel A Game of Thrones died at the end," Zou He - the head of the Cartoon Department at the Chongqing Publishing Group, which publishes the Chinese version of A Song of Ice and Fire - told the Global Times. "His superb writing skills and the authenticity of the characters made me feel that these novels needed to be imported into the Chinese mainland,"  he added. Time and patience"The huge success of A Song of Ice and Fire has had some influence on Chinese literature, but we will not see a huge improvement in Chinese fantasy novels over the short run," Zou said, noting that most Chinese authors writing fantasy novels are unable to produce great works because they are not professional enough and are too eager for quick success and instant riches."I know some young writers who lack a decent academic background but have gained some popularity on the Internet, they always talk about money at the beginning of a publishing project instead of discussing their literary works," Zou said, with a bit of an angry tone."I have read some domestic novels that are in part similar to A Song of Ice and Fire, but I have not seen any that can compete with it. I think this might be because many fantasy novels in China are treated as fast-moving consumer goods," said Qu. He explained that platforms that sell online novels put a lot of pressure on writers to update chapters as quickly as possible, which makes it hard for authors to produce an epic fantasy novel like A Song of Ice and Fire. Qu said China is a big market for fantasy, especially when it comes to the younger demographic. Most young people today are used to reading novels online and prefer to read short but interesting and thrilling stories, which has led to the establishment of a quick sales model for literature online. Fantasy novels in China are a bit like fast food. It's good for a quick fix, but you won't be able to enjoy a big and unforgettable meal like you would find at a Michelin-starred restaurant.According to Qu, the internet is a double-edged sword. It provides a platform for unknown writers to gain a reputation, but makes it difficult for them to improve their writing over the long run. Future talent"We will be able to produce some wonderful literature, including fantasy novels, after people's level of consumption and ability to appreciate literature improve," Qu said, noting that conditions today do not leave people with the time they need to read through a thick book. "How could a man trying to earn money to buy a house be willing to buy a thick and expensive book or have the patience to read it," he said. Qu also noted that he feels readers today are too reliant on the internet when it comes to forming their opinion and lack independent thinking and judgment, which causes reviews to be lop-sided. "China will establish a more mature literature market when Chinese read enough books. Then, Chinese readers will be able to identify really good literary works and be able to provide high-quality evaluations," Qu said."Although we will not see a huge improvement in Chinese literature right now, I've seen that we are making some process. I once met some young writers from some reputed universities including Peking University, Tsinghua University and Beijing Normal University. They have strong writing ability, a solid foundation in literature, a bigger vision and most importantly, they attach great importance to literary tradition. I am very optimistic about them, and I hope that they can keep polishing their literary skills and strive to write excellent works," Zou said.Newspaper headline: Only a fantasy? Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star