Martha Argerich with the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra in Shanghai on Saturday. Photo: Courtesy of the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra

Charles Dutoit (left) sits with Annie Dutoit on stage for the performance of Le Carnaval des Animaux on Saturday. Photo: Courtesy of the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra Grammy Award-winning Argentine pianist Martha Argerich performed with the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra for the first time for two concerts in Shanghai on Friday and Saturday. The 78-year-old Argerich established a name for herself internationally while in her teens and remains a first-tier pianist. Her beautiful appearance, unusual personality and personal life have also given her career a legendary air, capturing the interest of numerous fans over the years. Since the musician is known for canceling concerts, especially in recent years due to her advanced age, organizers and fans were anxious about the event. Fortunately, no one was let down, in fact the musician gave audiences a special treat by playing two additional pieces on Friday and giving an encore on Saturday.  The performances were kind of a family affair since they were conducted by Charles Dutoit - her ex-husband, with whom she still remains close friends - while her two daughters joined in on the presentation of Le Carnaval des Animaux during second night concert, which made the piece especially moving. Devotion to musicA rumor that Argerich no longer practices piano was dispelled after she arrived in Shanghai on Tuesday and began preparations for the concerts. According to Zhou Ping, president of Shanghai Symphony Orchestra, the musician didn't step out of her room for the entire day on Wednesday since she was busy practicing. Additionally, after a rehearsal with the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra on Thursday, she spent another couple of hours alone on stage to make sure every note she would play would be pitch perfect. After the orchestra played a rendition of The Merry Wives of Windsor Overture on Friday, Argerich walked into the concert hall to thunderous applause. The piece she chose to play was Prokofiev's Piano Concerto No.3. She amazed the audience with her stunning technique and excellent handling of tone. "You could clearly hear every note during a very fast section. This is called 'big and small beads falling onto a jade plate' in Chinese culture. There was no vague collision of notes at all, which shows that Argerich must practice the piano a lot," classical music critic Li Yanhuan said.  "I was touched by Argerich's devotion to music. She has her standard in regards to the quality of her performance. When we rehearsed together, she would ask the band to stop and play those parts she was dissatisfied about again," 14-year-old pianist Wang Yalun, who played the piano with Argerich for Saturday's Le Carnaval des animaux, told the Global Times during an interview.    'Le Carnaval des Animaux'After the orchestra had tuned their instruments and Argerich took her seat for her last piece on Saturday, the stage unexpectedly turned dark. Immediately a light shone down revealing the narrator Annie Dutoit, Argerich and Charles Dutoit's daughter, dressed in a shining white and blue dress. Uttering the narration written by Francis Blanche in French, the young professional reciter Dutoit had a great interaction with the orchestra. She blew sober bubbles on the stage, the round shape of which echoed the clear and steady strike of every piano key. She also drew laughs by pulling up some of her mother's gray hair and saying, "the pianist is a strange creature." She sat with her "swan" dad, the conductor Charles Dutoit, on stage while cellist Zhu Lin gave a beautiful solo. Argerich's older daughter Lyda Chen also played with the orchestra during the piece. Both Argerich and Wang's pianos reached a splendid climax at the end, bringing the image of animals holding a party together in a botanical garden to life. Moved by the extraordinary show and not yet willing to bid goodbye to Argerich, the audience continued to clap even after the main players had all moved backstage. In the balcony seats, hundreds of audience members clapped in unison, inspiring the roughly 1,200 strong audience to follow along. The performers were so honored by the reception that they hurried back to the stage for an encore. Zhou told the Global Times that they always set various levels of ticket prices so that true classical music lovers from all economic backgrounds can afford shows. The tickets for the Friday concert sold out within five minutes and the second one in 15 minutes. According to Qian Yinfeng, director of the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra's Media and Communication Department, Argerich spoke highly of the orchestra, calling it "a very good orchestra." Argerich was also gracious enough to allow the orchestra, which celebrates its 140 anniversary this year, to broadcast her second concert, which will benefit classical music lovers who couldn't attend the concert."For Chinese classical music fans, Argerich is a goddess and she is certainly a miracle in classical music. Many Chinese classical music fans have listened to her albums, which date back to the 1960s," Li noted.Newspaper headline: Family fun Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun