Illustrations: Luo Xuan/GTHave you seen a video that once went viral? A three-year-old Chinese child model was kicked and scolded by her mother because she was naughty. The woman hit her with a clothes hanger, and made her smile in front of the camera. The video quickly triggered wide criticism on China's Weibo. Many netizens said that the mother was using her daughter as a tool to make money.People.cn data shows 150,000 children participated in a child modeling competition in Beijing in 2018. Although the number only accounts for 0.06 percent of Chinese children under 14, it is still a large number.To me, these child models seem more like child puppets. The poor little girl's experience somewhat reflects the status quo of China's child modeling industry. For example, a five-year-old model fell in a faint because of overwork. Some parents even strictly control their children's diet to postpone their growth for them to have a longer career as child models.Why do these parents push their children to the child modeling industry? Because there is money to be made. As sales of children's wear rise in recent years, there is also an increasing need for child models. Some so-called famous child models can reportedly earn over 1,000,000 yuan ($145,471) a year. In normal families, parents work for a better future for their children, but it is the other way around in families with child models. This is pathetic because the children are too young to bear such a heavy burden.It has also caused chaos in the child modeling industry. There are institutions that specifically train child models and even expensive child model agents. Chinese child models once lacked detailed rules to protect their rights. But such a condition will be changed soon. Chinese authorities are adopting new regulations to control and standardize child modeling industry.In Hangzhou, East China's Zhejiang Province, prosecutors recently issued regulations forbidding children under 10 years of age from endorsing products. Companies cannot use the same child model for a week or accumulate more than a month, which will turn children into dropouts. Companies are also banned from using child models continuously for over four hours.These are China's first regulations on the child model industry, which have been praised by Chinese netizens. In fact, it's normal for children to be naughty. They are supposed to be happy and childlike. If children are dragged into this "vanity fair" at too early an age, they can hardly form the right values and outlook on the world. It will also be hard for them to focus on their studies. A so-called career for several years may destroy the children's lives. It's really not worth it, and parents should stop being selfish."Anyway, I imagine these kids playing some game in a rye field… And I'm standing on the edge of a crazy cliff. What I have to do, I have to catch everybody if they start to fall over the cliff," J.D. Salinger wrote in his famous novel, The Catcher in the Rye. In today's world, adults and laws should be those catchers in the rye to protect children from falling off the "crazy cliff." The author is a reporter with the Global Times. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starUnrealistic expectations thwart Chinese job recruitersDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los Angeles