The Maldives Ambassador to China Mohamed Faisal gives a speech. Photo: Yin Yeping/GT
The Maldives Ambassador to China Mohamed Faisal (middle), the ambassador's wife Jeehan Saleem (third from right) and other guests and representatives take group photo at the event. Photo: Yin Yeping/GT
A local citizen takes a photo of the paintings at the exhibition. Photo: Yin Yeping/GTThe launch of the Vision Maldives art exhibition under the theme of the Belt and Road Initiative took place at the China International Culture Exchange Center in Beijing on Saturday, showcasing over 70 paintings by the famous Maldivian artists Afzal Shaafiu and Ahmed Amir. The launch drew the participation of government representatives, diplomats, artists, media and friendly groups to take a close glimpse at the unique artistic creativity that the Maldives has to offer. Co-hosted by the Embassy of the Maldives in China and the China International Culture Exchange Center, the exhibition, which has been planned for some time, finally began, thanks to the work of the wife of the Maldives Ambassador to China Jeehan Saleem who, as a cultural envoy, coordinated in many of such events in China.The theme of the works exhibited shows the connection with the living world. The works address issues of climate change, plastic pollution and preservation of nature. It also shows the beauty of the Maldives natural landscapes and how we are all connected and face similar challenges in addressing global concerns. In the opening speech by the Maldives Ambassador to China Mohamed Faisal, he extended his excitement for holding the exhibition here and now. "As China celebrates our shared common destiny through the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations, we are very happy to present artworks from our Maldives artists in Beijing as a bridge for the Chinese people to discover a side of the Maldives that is beyond its natural beauty," the ambassador said. "The Chinese people's love for the Maldives has brought the two countries ever closer and I am certain that this exhibition is the beginning of another Chinese love affair with the Maldives." Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star