The US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, in a speech at a London conference, almost imperatively asked Britain to change its attitude toward China and its telecom equipment company Huawei. He wants Britain to treat China like the Soviet threat to the West. He also quoted the example of former prime minister Margaret Thatcher in a speech in which he mocked current Prime Minister Theresa May without naming her. He said: “Would the Iron Lady be silent when China violates the sovereignty of nations through corruption or coercion? Would she allow China to control the internet of the future?”Pompeo no longer considers the minimum respect for the special ally of the US. The British must have mixed feelings about Pompeo’s display of arrogance. A commentary in The Guardian titled “Mike Pompeo: a bully boy calls at No 10” writes that Pompeo wants to discuss “shared global priorities” with Theresa May, but he himself is a problem.The attitude of the US toward European allies has never been as arrogant as it is now. Even during the Cold War, when Europe was most dependent on US security, Washington gave credit to its allies. But look at how the US ambassador in Berlin urged Germany not to allow Huawei to provide 5G infrastructure to the country. The US ambassador also threatened German companies building the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline between Germany and Russia by warning them about the risk of sanctions. And now look at what Pompeo said in Britain; Washington is increasingly not treating Europe as a partner that needs equal treatment and respect, but as a small follower who should listen to the elder brother. China is fundamentally different from the Soviet Union. Even most Americans do not see China as "another Soviet Union." What's more, there are no European countries with obvious geopolitical disputes with China. European countries including Britain are more willing to actively explore their own development opportunities from the rise of China. They generally attach importance to expanding cooperation with China, and Britain has realistic thinking of the "golden era" in relations between China and Britain. Because China is indeed not the Soviet Union, it will be hard for the likes of Pompeo to peddle the same defense against China as against the Soviet Union. The first thing to convince people is to convince them with reason. Washington wants to push the "China threat theory" to the extreme, and what it lacks most is reason. Getting European countries to align their China policies with those of the US, or getting them to fully align themselves with the US to help it contain China, is certainly not something Washington can do. European nations have their own interests. They are not in zero-sum competition with China. Constantly expanding cooperation is the main theme of China-EU relations, which cannot be changed by a selfish US.China has no intention of driving a wedge between the US and Europe, but the fundamentals of China-EU relations are not something Washington can destroy. If the US is in too much of a hurry to get its own way, it will eventually backfire. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth