Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has promised to take swift action to legislate wide-scale tax cuts after winning Saturday's general election. Morrison's Liberal-National Party coalition (LNP) defied opinion polls to win a third term in power on Saturday, defeating the Australian Labor Party (ALP). The Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) on Monday projected that the party would win 77 out of 151 seats at the lower house of the Australian parliament, enough to govern in its own right without depending on the support of independent Members of Parliament (MPs). After spending Sunday attending church and going to watch a rugby league game, Morrison on Monday went back to work, saying he was keen to reconvene parliament as soon as possible. Doing so will allow the LNP to legislate the pledged 158 billion Australian dollars (109.2 billion US dollars) in tax cuts that was the centerpiece of its re-election campaign and of the Federal Budget for 2019/20 delivered by Treasurer Josh Frydenberg in April. "We have a lot to do," Morrison told News Corp Australia on Monday. "We put the budget to the Australian people, the whole thing, we handed down a budget, we now expect to pass a budget in its entirety." Under the tax plan, every Australian who earns between 45,000 Australian dollars (31,100 US dollars) and 200,000 Australian dollars (138,223 US dollars) will be subject to the same tax rate of 30 percent by financial year 2024/25. Morrison on Monday agreed with the assessment of John Howard, the LNP prime minister between 1996 and 2007, who on Saturday night said that pursuing "class warfare" cost the ALP. The ALP and leader Bill Shorten oppose the LNP's tax cuts, instead promising greater tax cuts for low-income earners that would have been paid for by closing tax loopholes that benefit the wealthy. "We don't want to have this sort of country where he hold some people down to hold others up. We don't want to have that politics of division," Morrison told Macquarie Media radio on Monday. Simon Birmingham, a South Australian LNP senator who served as the party's official campaign spokesman, repeated Morrison's message, saying that the party was focused on its economic agenda. "We're going to get on with our economic plan, with our job creation plan. We will seek to legislate our plans to reduce the tax burden on Australians as soon as we possibly can," he said. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Utah celebrates 150th birthday of Transcontinental RailroadActress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame star