EU Commissioner for Education, Culture, Youth and Sport Tibor Navracsics on Wednesday hailed the enhanced cooperation between Asia and Europe in education, stressing that the European Commission remains committed to a global approach to education. Speaking at the 7th Asia-Europe Meeting of Ministers of Education (ASEMME7), Navracsics said the Europe-Asia Conference is a fundamental forum for the EU, which allows for an informal dialogue and the exchange of good practice. "The priorities of the meeting for education are deeply linked to the overall evolution of education in Europe. We see enhanced cooperation between Asia and Europe in this field," said Navracsics, expressing his satisfaction that he personally has promoted a wide range of opportunities created by EU funding instruments such as ERASMUS+ and Horizon 2020. According to him, all these programs support cooperation between the two continents and encourage bi-directional mobility for students, researchers and academic staff. "These direct contacts between people are crucial: they help promote intercultural dialogue and develop intercultural awareness," Navracsics said, emphasizing the importance of connectivity and mobility between students, academics and researchers. Romania's Ministry of National Education organized the ASEMME7 on Wednesday and Thursday in Bucharest, under the auspices of Romania's Presidency of the Council of the European Union (EU) in the first half of 2019. With the theme "Connecting education: inclusion, mobility and excellence in support of the Sustainable Development Goals," the ASEMME7 in Bucharest will therefore have a closer look on the priority theme of "Balanced Mobility" within ASEM Education and how digitalisation could be an opportunity to contribute to better balanced and more inclusive mobility programmes. The Asia-Europe Meeting of Ministers of Education is an important platform for international cooperation in education between Asia and European and an intergovernmental cooperation mechanism in the field of education under the Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM), established in 1996 to foster dialogue and cooperation between Asia and Europe. The first ASEMME was held in Germany in 2008 and since then, the meeting is held every two years in Asia and Europe, with representatives of the 53 ASEM member states and the EU, as well as those of other international organizations. Chinese Ambassador to Romania Jiang Yu led a delegation to represent the Chinese Ministry of Education at the meeting in Bucharest. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starUnrealistic expectations thwart Chinese job recruitersDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los Angeles