Thousands of people were evacuated from villages Thursday along India's eastern coastline ahead of extremely severe cyclonic storm Fani, officials said. "The process of evacuating people to safer places and over 3,000 cyclone shelter homes have been arranged," an official said. "A total of 750,000 people will be evacuated by evening. Food, water and health assistance will be available in shelter homes." The cyclone Fani is heading towards Odisha with wind speeds in excess of 200 kmph and is expected to make landfall on Friday. "The extremely severe cyclonic storm Fani (pronounced as Foni) over west central Bay of Bengal moved further north-northeastwards with a speed of about 15 kmph in last six hours and lay centerd at 8:30 a.m. (local time) today over west central Bay of Bengal, about 420 km south-southwest of Puri (Odisha), 210 km south-southeast of Vishakhapatnam (Andhra Pradesh) and 610 km south-southwest of Digha (West Bengal). It is very likely to move north-northeastwards and cross Odisha Coast between Gopalpur and Chandbali, around Puri during Friday afternoon with maximum sustained wind speed of 170-180 kmph gusting to 200 kmph," said a statement issued by ministry of earth science. The ministry officials said the cyclone was being tracked by Doppler Weather Radars Vishakhapatnam and Machilipatnam. Officials have now shut down operations at two major ports on the east coast and issued an alert in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. "Alerted all concerned to be ready to deal with Cyclone Fani. Airport Authority of India issued alert to all coastal airports to ensure all precautions, SOPs put in place immediately. Situation will be monitored at the highest level. Airlines and all others to be fully ready," India's civil aviation minister said. Meanwhile, all schools and universities in the state have been shut down. In 2017, Cyclone Ockhi killed more than 200 people and displaced hundreds. India's Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of light to moderate rainfall at most places in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal until Saturday. Indian government Tuesday released a financial assistance of 155.4 million US dollars to four states -- Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal -- to help them take preventive measures in response to cyclonic storm Fani. Authorities have put Indian navy on high alert in the area for rescue and relief efforts. Officials said extensive damage is expected to all types of makeshift houses, partial damage to old badly managed conventional structures. "There is potential threat from flying objects, extensive uprooting of communication and power poles, disruption of rail and road links at several places, extensive damage to standing crops, plantations, orchards, uprooting of large bushy trees and large boats and ships may get torn from their moorings," the IMD said. "Total suspension of fishing operations, extensive evacuation from coastal areas, diversion or suspension of rail and road traffic." Authorities have urged people in the affected areas to remain indoors and asked people against movement in motor boats and small ships. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun