Top nuclear envoys of South Korea and the United States held a working group meeting here on Friday, a day after the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) launched projectiles, according to Seoul's foreign ministry. Lee Do-hoon, South Korean special representative for Korean Peninsula peace and security affairs, and US special representative for DPRK affairs Stephen Biegun jointly presided over the meeting in Seoul. The working group was launched last November to coordinate between Seoul and Washington on the Korean Peninsula issues such as denuclearization, sanctions and inter-Korean cooperation. During the meeting, Lee and Biegun made in-depth discussions on ways to advance the complete denuclearization of and the settlement of permanent peace on the Korean Peninsula, sharing their assessment of recent situations, including the DPRK's projectile launches, the Seoul ministry said. The working group meeting was attended by South Korean officials from the defense and unification ministries and the presidential Blue House, according to local media. From the US side, participants were Alex Wong, US deputy assistant secretary of state for DPRK affairs, and Allison Hooker, director of the White House National Security Council for the DPRK. The working group meeting came a day after the DPRK fired off two unidentified projectiles from its northwestern region. They traveled eastward about 420 km and 270 km at an altitude of 45 km to 50 km. Five days earlier, Pyongyang fired several short-range projectiles into the sea off its east coast. The projectiles flew between 70 km and 240 km at an altitude of some 60 km. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Actress Liu honored with Hollywood Walk of Fame starDelegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growth