Chinese tenor Ma Jia Photo: Li Hao/GTStylishly dressed in a grey oversized suit and a pair of white sneakers, 28-year-old Ma Jia appears more like a pop singer who could suddenly bust out break-dancing moves, rather than a classically trained tenor. For those who don't know him, it would be hard to imagine the other side of this curious, talkative young man - where he is dressed in a bowtie and tuxedo, singing like he owns the world. Six months ago, before the television show Super-Vocal, Ma was little known to even those who are most addicted to TV. Super-Vocal, a Hunan Television and online content provider iQiyi production, was dubbed the first original vocal competition show which sets out to introduce operas and musicals to a broader audience and features three musicians as producers and 36 singers, mostly in their 20s or early 30s, who compete for six seats for lead vocalists. As Super-Vocal exploded, their opera shows and concerts are sold out. And for the first time, fan clubs and discussion groups that used to only belong to young pop stars started to sprout on the Chinese internet. Suddenly, these young vocalists seem to have become the face of classical operas. Despite the success of the show, to become opera singers is not an easy path, especially in China where the market potential for classical operas or contemporary musicals hasn't been fully tapped. But Ma decided to take the path of a tenor since childhood. "[Singing is] getting rid of all your thoughts, and using all your heart and soul. I am like that. On the stage, I am honest, away from any restriction, and I give everything I have," he said.  Sudden fame In the show and among the 36 vocalists, Ma is known as the one with a passionate and confident manner on stage. The show has everything needed for successful television - music, handsome young men, entertaining competition and passionate connections between the signers.On the Chinese social networking service website, Douban, the show scored 9.3 out of 10 by more than 72,000 viewers.Although the show's broadcasting ended in January after a total of 12 episodes, the hype is far from over. With their national tour starting in April, tickets to their concerts have sold out within seconds and discussions about getting tickets have become top trending topics on Sina Weibo. Some might say that in China, more people learn to appreciate operas and musicals now and the market is growing. According to statistics by Zero Power Intelligence, the box office totals for musicals in China in 2017 was 348 million yuan ($51.5 million), doubling that of 2016. Ma pointed out that the popularity of himself and his partners from the show has been a good start, but efforts still need to be made. "To be frank, the market is still limited," he said. "There are a small number of professionals performing and a small number of audiences." "In some cases, there were fewer audiences watching offstage than people actually on the stage, with the show's crew - actors, actresses, the choir, stage staff and others - easily counting for more than 100 or even 200," he recalled.   Students pursuing a musical major are under real pressure. "There are so many academies and so many students that graduate every year. Many of them have to choose another career path. So I feel extremely lucky to be still standing on the stage," Ma said. Ma talked about one of his good friends from his graduate school, who now is a restaurant owner. Although his friend is in a totally different business, they still sit and talk. Sometimes, his friend comments on whether Ma sang well or not on the TV show, and Ma feels like he is singing for more than just himself. "The reality is cruel. So, I feel even greater responsibility on my shoulders," he said.  However, young apprentices like himself have been able to see more audiences who appreciate classical music and see more possibilities in becoming professional opera or musical actors, said Ma, especially since the National Centre for the Performing Arts opened in 2007 in Beijing. The country's renowned China Broadcasting Film Symphony Orchestra also celebrated its 70th anniversary in April. 

Ma Jia performs on Super-Vocal. Photo: Courtesy of Ma JiaClassics in today's market There has been criticism towards such market-oriented promotion of classical arts, and accusations that they choose popularity over the artistic elements of the classics. Ma sees that promoting the classic art is a great responsibility. The way he sees it is that even in the area of elegant, classic vocal music, the most popular, catchy verses known to a broader audience are still the key to cultivating interest in the public. For his first appearance on the show, Ma chose "La donna è mobile" ("Woman is fickle") by Italian composer Giuseppe Verdi (1813-1901), which is often seen as a showcase for tenors. The story behind the song was also compelling, Ma said. As Verdi knew it would become a hit, he kept the rehearsing under tight secrecy. And his first public performance did prove the canzone (song) to be incredibly catchy. "Why was the song so successful, and why do people still sing it after so many years? It has all the dramatic elements and a verse that captures people's heart immediately," he said. "I chose it because it is a classic among the classics," he said. "A song would have been a failure if it were only appreciated by professionals." Prior to our interview, Ma had just returned from a trip to Italy in March. At the Gala of Chinese-Italian Friendship in Rome on March 21, Ma and two other members of the show, Yu Di and Wang Kai, performed along with the tenors of the Italian operatic pop trio Il Volo. After performing Italian songs not only in Italy, but also during a time when the two countries agreed to advance a China-Italy comprehensive strategic partnership, Ma felt a great sense of duty. "[By] representing Chinese singers and representing the young generation of China," he said. During the trip, he spent every second practicing the songs they would perform, including "O Sole Mio (My Sunshine)" and "Grande Amore (Great Love)." The music environment in Italy has been very impressive for Ma and he believes with this generation of artists' efforts, Chinese audiences will become more appreciative of  operas and musicals. "[In Italy,] seeing some young singers, wearing a bowtie, and just picking up an instrument to go to sing an aria on the corner of the street [is very special]. And people would really listen, in silence. That is such a good feeling," he said. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Delegation of HUST attends alumni gala in Los AngelesChinese driving Vegas growthHaving fun