Photo: VCGChina strongly opposes the US' use of state power to suppress specific Chinese enterprises in the absence of any evidence, a Chinese official said, adding that barring Chinese telecoms firms Huawei Technologies and ZTE from a federal subsidy program to supply carriers in rural areas would cause tremendous losses for American companies. The Federal Communications Commission, the US telecoms regulator, plans to vote in November to designate Huawei and ZTE as national security risks, Reuters reported on Tuesday. The move would forbid US rural carriers from tapping into an $8.5 billion government fund to purchase equipment or services of those two firms. It has become part of Washington's broader crackdown campaign against the Chinese telecoms firms, which are major suppliers of global wireless networks."Such bullying behavior in the economic domain denies the principle of the market economy that the US side is always touting, and this will not be supported and recognized by the global community," Geng Shuang, spokesperson of the Chinese Foreign Ministry, told a press briefing on Tuesday. The Rural Wireless Association earlier estimated that replacing Huawei and ZTE gear would cost between $800 million and $1 billion, as 25 percent of its members have already implemented products from these two companies in their networks, according to media reports. The ban could even lead to total cut-off of networks in some rural regions of the US."Some advocate banning Huawei and ZTE in US rural areas, which would eventually hurt the interests of American companies and consumers. How are they willing to take such a risk?" Geng asked. The Trump administration has been suppressing the two Chinese companies for over a year by citing potential security risks they posed. However, Huawei has repeatedly denied such accusations, claiming that it would welcome third-party network security evaluation. The spokesperson also noted that most countries still remember the Prism incident and its crackdown on France's Alstom, and that the US has still not given any clear explanation about it. "We urge the US side to stop generalizing the idea of national security, and to stop smearing China and suppressing specific Chinese companies with groundless accusations," Geng said, adding that it should provide a fair, justified and nondiscriminatory environment for Chinese firms operating in the US. Global Times  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Huawei surges despite US ban  Huawei obtains first 5G base station network license Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement