People dance at a square during a culture and tourism festival themed on Dolan and Qiuci culture in Awat County of Aksu Prefecture, northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous region, Oct. 25, 2019. The festival kicked off recently in Aksu Prefecture. (Xinhua/Sadat)Some Western countries' "anti-China show" has been a "shameful failure," Chinese FM spokesperson said on Wednesday, in reference to 23 countries, led by the UK and the US, accusing China's policy on its northwestern Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region against more countries which supported China at a UN conference. "More than 60 countries spoke in support of China's stance on Xinjiang-related issues, praised China's achievements on human rights and opposed the use of 'human rights' as an excuse to interfere in China's internal affairs. A small number of Western countries' anti-China show encountered a shameful failure," Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Geng Shuang said on a press briefing on Wednesday. The UK Permanent Representative to the UN, Ambassador Karen Pierce, on Tuesday read a joint statement of the 23 countries, which accused China of "arbitrary detention" of Uyghurs. They included the US, many of its allies and some European countries. Geng said Xinjiang has taken a series of counter-terrorism and de-radicalization measures, including opening vocational training and education centers, which have greatly improved the security in the region. People of all ethnic groups are living a happy life and enjoy their rights to life, health and development."We urge countries such as the US and UK not to stand against the truth," Geng said, noting that more than 60 countries gave "an overwhelming voice to justice" in support of China, which was in contrast to some countries' baseless accusations."We know that countries like the US and the UK have their own human rights issues. They are not qualified to point a finger at other countries. They should reflect on their own problems. We suggest that they take off their masks "in defense of human rights," stop politicizing and using double standards on human rights or using human rights as an excuse to interfere in other countries' internal affairs," Geng said. In response to the German ambassador's remarks on China, who said the  high commissioner from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) should be allowed to enter Xinjiang's training centers, Geng said China has invited senior officials from the OHCHR to Xinjiang many times and has maintained contact with the UN.  Geng noted that China has invited many diplomats, reporters and religious personnel to Xinjiang. What they saw and heard in Xinjiang was totally different from what Western countries were saying. "The US, UK and other countries, on one hand, ask China to allow UN officials into Xinjiang, but on the other hand, they impose pressure and interfere with officials who visit Xinjiang. Their behavior is improper. There is an unspeakable political purpose behind this," Geng said.Xinjiang is an open region and "we welcome foreign reporters and diplomats to the region and hope they can see the real situation. They also need to communicate with China and go through necessary procedures," Geng said. Global Times 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Xinjiang receives over 183.85 mln tourists in first 3 quarters Xinjiang surpasses goal of helping more than 120,000 residents find jobs Culture and tourism festival kicks off in Aksu of China's Xinjiang Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Rose queensPG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying