A Yemeni grain vendor waits for customers in Sanaa, Yemen, Oct. 16, 2019, the World Food Day. The long-running conflict has caused the world's worst humanitarian crisis. Currently, some 24 million Yemenis, or 80 percent of the population, need humanitarian aid and protection, with some 20 million lacking food security, according to previous UN statistics. (Photo by Mohammed Mohammed/Xinhua)  

A man walks past bread for sale in Sanaa, Yemen, Oct. 16, 2019, the World Food Day. The long-running conflict has caused the world's worst humanitarian crisis. Currently, some 24 million Yemenis, or 80 percent of the population, need humanitarian aid and protection, with some 20 million lacking food security, according to previous UN statistics. (Photo by Mohammed Mohammed/Xinhua)  

Yemeni people have their breakfast at a restaurant in Sanaa, Yemen, Oct. 16, 2019, the World Food Day. The long-running conflict has caused the world's worst humanitarian crisis. Currently, some 24 million Yemenis, or 80 percent of the population, need humanitarian aid and protection, with some 20 million lacking food security, according to previous UN statistics. (Photo by Mohammed Mohammed/Xinhua)  

A Yemeni man buys food from a vendor in Sanaa, Yemen, Oct. 16, 2019, the World Food Day. The long-running conflict has caused the world's worst humanitarian crisis. Currently, some 24 million Yemenis, or 80 percent of the population, need humanitarian aid and protection, with some 20 million lacking food security, according to previous UN statistics. (Photo by Mohammed Mohammed/Xinhua)   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  2m children out of school in war-torn Yemen: UN Yemenis with eye illness receive free treatment in Sanaa Sweet dish "Bint al-Sahn" delivers special message from Yemeni bride Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US PG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific Airshow