Rioters burn items at the Causeway Bay metro station entrance in Hong Kong on October 4, 2019. Photo: AFPChina on Sunday strongly condemned US Republican senator Ted Cruz for interfering in Hong Kong's affairs, harboring Hong Kong rioters and smearing Hong Kong police, warning him not to act wildly on Chinese territory.  Cruz's extreme and absurd remarks made during his stay in Hong Kong recklessly trampled international law and basic norm of international relations and were meant to commit sabotages against conscience, an official statement released by the Office of the Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of China in Hong Kong said on Sunday. According to Reuters, Cruz said he will continue to "look for tools" to support Hong Kong protesters in the name of human rights and democracy and "to speak clearly against repression and torture and murder." Cruz also tweeted on October 7 to express support of Daryl Morey, the current general manager of NBA's Houston Rockets, whose previous tweet supporting Hong Kong rioters angered many Chinese. "Cruz glorified the black-clad rioters' acts which trample on the rule of law, endanger public safety, and attempt to take over the jurisdiction over Hong Kong and destroy 'one country, two systems' as fighting for human rights and democracy, slandering China's central government as well as the Hong Kong SAR government. His vicious intentions and despicable tricks have been detected by the world," read the statement from the Commissioner's office. Various foreign forces are serving as a protective umbrella for violent radicals in Hong Kong and are making them emboldened and lawless. The deterioration of the Hong Kong situation, which is distressful, is caused by the collusion between foreign "black hands" and anti-China disrupters in Hong Kong, said the statement.  "All Chinese people, including Hong Kong compatriots, are firmly opposed to politicians like Cruz, who is a habitual liar, coming to Hong Kong to stir trouble. The Chinese are unshakable in our determination to safeguard China's sovereignty and security as well as Hong Kong's prosperity and stability," read the statement. "We warn people like Cruz to take off their black clothes, take back their 'black hands,' stop meddling in Hong Kong affairs and not to act wildly in Chinese territory."Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam has cancelled a meeting with Cruz, who chose to dress in black to show his support for the black-clad protesters, Reuters reported.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Hong Kong police dismiss abuse rumors   Online petition launched in Hong Kong against "black terror" Industry urges more measures to end violence as Hong Kong stock turnover slips Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Girls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific AirshowSurviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenship