Demonstrators from the International Shugden Community take part in a protest against the Dalai Lama in central London on Saturday. The International Shugden Community, a branch of Tibetan Buddhism that reveres a deity denounced by the Dalai Lama since 1996, opposes his claim to be Tibet's spiritual and political leader. Photo: AFP  Chinese Foreign Ministry on Tuesday urged US officials to stop contacting the Dalai Lama clique, making irresponsible remarks and using Tibet-related issues to interfere in China's internal affairs, after top US diplomat Sam Brownback met with the Dalai Lama and discussed how to improve religious freedom. The US Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom, Sam Brownback, began his trip in Dharmsala, India on Monday, where he delivered remarks alongside the Dalai Lama at the 60th anniversary celebration of the Tibetan Institute for the Performing Arts, India media PTI reported.Brownback met the Dalai Lama and they discussed ways to improve religious freedom for Tibetan Buddhists around the world, the report said. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Geng Shuang stressed that the 14th Dalai Lama was a political exile who has been engaged in anti-China separatist activities outside the country. China firmly opposes foreign official's contact with him in any form. The US official's remarks violated US' commitment to recognize Tibet as part of China and not support "Tibet secession," Geng said."We urge the US official to stop contacting the Dalai Lama clique, making irresponsible remarks and using Tibet-related issues to interfere in China's internal affairs," Geng said. Besides, the reincarnation of Living Buddhas has fixed religious rituals and historical customs, said the spokesman. The Chinese government has adopted a policy of freedom of religious belief and promulgated the Regulations on Religious Affairs and the Measures for the Administration of the Reincarnation of Living Buddhas of Tibetan Buddhism to respect and protect this mode of inheritance.The reincarnation system of the Living Buddha of the Dalai Lama has a history of several hundred years. The 14th Dalai Lama himself was recognized based on religious rituals and historical conventions, and was reported to the then central government, which approved the succession. Therefore, the reincarnation of Living Buddhas, including the Dalai Lama, should follow national laws and regulations, religious rituals and historical conventions, Geng said.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  It’s impossible to hold negotiations with Dalai Lama without conditions Beijing will continue to fight against Dalai Lama’s separatist goals Tibetan authorities denounce Dalai Lama’s hypocrisy Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Rose queensPG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying