Tourists go sightseeing at the West Lake scenic area in Hangzhou, capital of Zhejiang Province, Oct. 7, 2019. According to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism (MCT), Chinese tourists made 782 million visits to recreational and cultural activities during the week-long National Day holiday, marking a year-on-year increase of 7.81 percent. China's tourism industry has raked in over 649.71 billion yuan (about 90.9 billion U.S. dollars) in revenue from domestic tourists during the holiday, up 8.47 percent from a year earlier. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi)  

Tourists enjoy leisure time by boat at Xihu Park in Fuzhou, southeast China's Fujian Province, Oct. 7, 2019. According to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism (MCT), Chinese tourists made 782 million visits to recreational and cultural activities during the week-long National Day holiday, marking a year-on-year increase of 7.81 percent. China's tourism industry has raked in over 649.71 billion yuan (about 90.9 billion U.S. dollars) in revenue from domestic tourists during the holiday, up 8.47 percent from a year earlier. (Xinhua/Lin Shanchuan) China saw a total of 782 million domestic tourist trips made during the seven-day National Day holiday, up 7.81 percent from last year, according to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Tourism revenue reached nearly 650 billion yuan (about 90.94 billion US dollars) during the holiday which lasts from Oct. 1 to 7, up 8.47 percent, according to the ministry. "Red tourism," or revolutionary-themed tourism, has become a highlight. About 78.84 percent of tourists participated in activities celebrating the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China, according to statistics from the ministry. About 66.4 percent visited culture and history-themed tourist sites, while 44.96 percent participated in nighttime tourist activities. Over 7 million outbound trips were also made by Chinese during the holiday, said the ministry.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Chongqing Municipality issues travel texts to residents Railway stations across China witness travel rush 70 years on, Chinese travel abroad more easily in much larger number Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Surviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenshipHorse dancing  College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in US