United Nations Special Envoy to Libya Ghassan Salame and German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas are welcomed upon arrival in Zuwara, Libya, Oct. 27, 2019. German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas on Sunday stressed Germany's support for the efforts of the UN Special Envoy to Libya Ghassan Salame that aim to end the current Libyan crisis. Photo: Xinhua German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas on Sunday stressed Germany's support for the efforts of the UN Special Envoy to Libya Ghassan Salame that aim to end the current Libyan crisis. The foreign minister made his remarks during a brief press conference in western Libyan city of Zuwara following a meeting with the UN-backed Prime Minister Fayez Serraj. "Germany supports the efforts and his three-point plan, and is making intensive efforts to revive the political process by engaging all Libyan parties in order to curb foreign interference in Libya," Maas told the press conference. "We held three consecutive and in-depth meetings. The next will be in few weeks as part of the Berlin process, which will be crowned with a summit that will endorse the principles reached through negotiation with various parties. A follow-up committee will come out of the summit," Salame said during the press conference. Serraj was briefed on the Berlin process and the preparatory meetings held so far for the summit, the UN Support Mission in Libya tweeted. According to a statement issued by the PM's information office, Serraj welcomed the Berlin conference, pointing out that the "international division (over Libya) encouraged certain parties not to commit to outcomes of previous conferences and to try to obstruct reaching compromise." Libya is politically divided between eastern and western governments, amid escalating violence and instability. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Italy, France vow to move in coordinated way after talks on immigration, Libya Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Rose queensPG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying