Indian paramilitary troopers stand guard after a grenade attack in Srinagar city, the summer capital of Indian-controlled Kashmir, October 12, 2019. At least seven people including a woman were wounded Saturday in a grenade attack in restive Indian-controlled Kashmir, police said. The grenade attack was carried out in Srinagar city of Indian-controlled Kashmir. (Xinhua) 

A wounded person is carried on a stretcher for medical treatment at a local hospital in Srinagar city, the summer capital of Indian-controlled Kashmir, October 12, 2019. At least seven people including a woman were wounded Saturday in a grenade attack in restive Indian-controlled Kashmir, police said. The grenade attack was carried out in Srinagar city of Indian-controlled Kashmir. (Xinhua) 



An Indian paramilitary trooper stands guard after a grenade attack in Srinagar city, the summer capital of Indian-controlled Kashmir, October 12, 2019. At least seven people including a woman were wounded Saturday in a grenade attack in restive Indian-controlled Kashmir, police said. The grenade attack was carried out in Srinagar city of Indian-controlled Kashmir. (Xinhua) 



A wounded person is carried on a wheelchair for medical treatment at a local hospital in Srinagar city, the summer capital of Indian-controlled Kashmir, October 12, 2019. At least seven people including a woman were wounded Saturday in a grenade attack in restive Indian-controlled Kashmir, police said. The grenade attack was carried out in Srinagar city of Indian-controlled Kashmir. (Xinhua) 



A wounded person waits for medical treatment at a local hospital in Srinagar city, the summer capital of Indian-controlled Kashmir, October 12, 2019. At least seven people including a woman were wounded Saturday in a grenade attack in restive Indian-controlled Kashmir, police said. The grenade attack was carried out in Srinagar city of Indian-controlled Kashmir. (Xinhua)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Lockdown, communication blockade continue in Indian-controlled Kashmir Indian-controlled Kashmir authorities ask tourists to leave immediately