Photo:ICReal Madrid midfielder James Rodriguez was Tuesday named in Colombia's preliminary squad for friendlies against Peru and Ecuador in November. The 28-year-old has not played for the Cafeteros since their Copa America quarterfinal defeat to Chile on penalties in June. He missed the team's friendly draws with Brazil (2-2) and Venezuela (0-0) in September because of a leg muscle injury. Despite having returned to action for Real Madrid, the former Bayern Munich playmaker has again left out of Colombia's squad for friendlies earlier this month: a 0-0 draw with Chile and a 3-0 defeat to Algeria. Colombia head coach Carlos Queiroz also recalled River Plate midfielder Juan Fernando Quintero, who has recovered from a knee injury that sidelined him for seven months. But there was no place for Galatasaray striker Radamel Falcao, who is suffering Achilles problem. Colombia will meet Peru in Miami on November 15 and Ecuador in New Jersey four days later. Queiroz will trim his 34-man squad to 23 players next week. Following is the preliminary Colombia squad: Goalkeepers: David Ospina (Napoli), Camilo Vargas (Atlas), Aldair Quintana (Atletico Nacional), Eder Chaux (Patriots). Defenders: Luis Orejuela (Cruzeiro), Stefan Medina (Monterrey), Santiago Arias (Atletico Madrid), Davinson Sanchez (Tottenham), Oscar Murillo (Pachuca), Yerry Mina (Everton), Jhon Lucumi (Genk), Jeison Murillo (Sampdoria), Cristian Borja (Sporting Lisbon), William Tesillo (Leon), Johan Mojica (Girona), Frank Fabra (Boca Juniors). Midfielders: Wilmar Barrios (Zenit St Petersburg), Gustavo Cuellar (Al Hilal), Jorman Campuzano (Boca Juniors), Juan Guillermo Cuadrado (Juventus), Jefferson Lerma (Bournemouth), Steven Alzate (Brighton), James Rodriguez (Real Madrid), Mateus Uribe (Porto), Yairo Moreno (Leon), Juan Fernando Quintero (River Plate). Forwards: Luis Muriel (Atalanta), Luis Sinisterra (Feyenoord), Steven Mendoza (Amiens), Roger Martinez (America), Luis Diaz (Porto), Sebastian Villa (Boca Juniors) , Alfredo Morelos (Rangers), Rafael Borre (River Plate). 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  No James Bond to rescue Aston Martin, carmaker struggles as demand falls Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Rose queensPG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying