China's private and smaller industrial companies posted faster-than-average growth in industrial output during the first three quarters, an offical said Tuesday. Industrial output of private, small and medium-sized industrial enterprises jumped by 8 percent and 7.1 percent, respectively, with a 5.6-percent increase in the entire industrial sector, Huang Libin, spokesperson with the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, told a press conference. 

Workers pack frozen vegetables for export at a factory in Rizhao, East China’s Shandong Province. File photo: VCGIndustrial output, officially called industrial value added, is used to measure the activity of enterprises with annual business turnover of at least 20 million yuan (about 2.8 million US dollars). The industrial sector maintained overall stability, as the 5.6-percent increase in industrial output is within the government's annual target of 5.5 to 6 percent, and the decline in corporate profits has slowed down, Huang said. In the first eight months, the profits of China's major industrial firms dropped 1.7 percent, and the decrease rate was 0.7 percentage points lower than that in the first half, data showed. More than 5 million private companies were set up during the first three quarters, up nearly 10 percent year on year. Private and smaller companies fared better than average, with their profits rising 6.6 percent and 5.7 percent year on year. China cut private companies taxes by 820 billion yuan during the first eight months, which helped alleviate their financial burdens. China will strengthen monitoring and analysis of economic development, expand domestic and overseas markets, and continue to improve business environment, Huang said. "The performance of the industrial sector in the fourth quarter will be better than that in the third quarter, and we believe that we are on track to meet the annual target of 5.5 to 6 percent increase in industrial output," Huang noted. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  SMEs in China need to adapt to financial liberalization in order to benefit from it SMEs raise funds on third board  ADB increases financing to SMEs in China Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US PG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific Airshow