On a Friday afternoon, Jia Hua (pseudonym) picked his daughter Ting Ting (pseudonym) up from school in a hurry, as they are scheduled to attend an extracurricular class - fencing. It was Ting's third fencing class, in which Ting showed great interest. Ting is a seven-year-old primary school student in Shanghai."We didn't know about fencing when we first started. A salesperson called me up and invited us for a demo, and then we tried. My daughter showed great interest in it," Jia told the Global Times. "Fencing is different from the popular sports we know of such as basketball, badminton or table tennis, and it's not bad for her to learn a new sport as well as improve her physical and mental well-being. So I brought her to the class."There are both physical fitness lessons with other students and technical training sessions for Jia's daughter. According to Jia, the fencing training center he chose has over 30 Chinese coaches and other renowned overseas coaches.Jia said he has paid 25,000 yuan ($3,531.07) for one-year of lessons for his daughter and himself, which includes training fees and equipment for both of them. "I hope I can learn with her together to know the rules, which is good for me to communicate with my daughter as well as a good way to develop a new hobby for myself." 

A student practices fencing. Photo: VCGBalance with the curricular classJia is not the only parent seeking an extracurricular class for his child. In China, there are a rising number of extracurricular training centers, including that for math, English and painting.Jia said it's good to let her daughter attend a sports class instead of a classroom-oriented curricular. "I hope fencing can let her experience something fresh."Indeed, under huge academic pressure, it's not easy for Chinese parents to seek a balance between extracurricular and curricular classes. "Most of the kids in my training center are full of extracurricular classes during the weekend," said Liu Shuo, CEO, and founder of Qu Shua Golf, a pan-nation family community golf institute and franchise.Liu told the Global Times many parents choose golf, fencing or equestrian instead of traditional sports like badminton or basketball because they hope their children could excel in forging a good social relationship as well as learn some unique techniques which might be helpful in the future study at home or abroad. "Many colleges prefer to accept those students who are versed in nonconventional sports like golf or fencing," Liu said. "Take golf as an example, the sport can cultivate children's patience, independent thinking, and nurture willpower. It's not easy for a six-year-old child to practice golf for a long time in the hot summer. However, you have to be patient if you want to finish the game."Jia echoed Liu's opinion. "I think most of the parents, especially in big cities, are seeking a balance between their daily study and extra sports training."  


A student plays golf with coaches. Photo: VCG
Popular trends "Most of our students are from the middle-class families, who at least earn 500,000 yuan per year," Liu said. Liu admits that sports like golf, fencing, etc are not so cheap.In Liu's golf training center, normally it costs 400 yuan for a one-hour class. If students want to hire a private coach, the price will be higher depending on the coaches' level."Yes, we have to say these sports like fencing, golf and equestrian are really good for children to learn new skills and have fresh experiences. But we can't afford it," a 38-year-old mother surnamed Zhou, who is living in Beijing, told the Global Times."I have sent my five-year-old kid to learn English online and it costs me nearly 200 yuan for one single class," Zhou said. "I'm also thinking of sending him to hone some extra sports."Earlier in 2016, the State Council approved a five-year National Fitness Program, which laid down guidelines for deepening sports reform. China is promoting a new concept of national fitness and health.During recent years, some local schools have introduced nonconventional sports to their curricula, teaching students rules, moves and skills.In 2016, the Experimental School of Foreign Languages Affiliated to East China Normal University became one of the first public elementary schools in the country to introduce golf as one of its compulsory courses.An estimated 10,000 schools in the country are going to introduce golf classes by 2022, according to a youth golf development plan released by the China Golf Association in 2018. "It would be a good trend if schools could include these sports like golf, fencing in the curricular class," a Shanghai local primary school PE teacher, surnamed Wang, told the Global Times. "Parents don't need to spend a lot to let their children experience these sports, while students could gain more knowledge to better communicate with the international communities.""For those parents who can afford these sports, they can send their kids to learn fencing or golf," Wang said.But for most children who already have a lot of extra lessons in math or English, parents should think twice before adding the extra burden and dwell carefully on balancing their classes, according to Wang. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Girls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific AirshowSurviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenship