Xie Rongbin, a deputy editor-in-chief of the Global Times, delivers a keynote speech at the opening ceremony of the 2019 International Media Forum at the Peking University on Saturday. (Photos provided by PKU School of Journalism and Communication). Peking University (PKU) hosted the 2019 International Media Forum over the weekend with the theme, "Changes in the World and International Communication."   Jointly sponsored by PKU's School of Journalism and Communication and the Global Times Foundation, the forum invited media scholars and journalists from home and abroad for a face-to-face discussion with policymakers, leaders from all walks of life and trendsetters like young college students.

He Shu, an associate professor at the PKU School of Journalism and Communication, speaks at the 2019 International Media Forum. He Shu, co-founder of the Peking University International Media Forum and associate professor at the PKU School of Journalism and Communication, spoke at the forum."This world is too noisy with unregulated online expressions.  It is evident that media and journalism play a vital role in establishing healthy international relations," said He. By discussing key issues on equal footing, "we can build an innovative environment for international communication and embody the very essence of communication in doing so. Furthermore, we hope that the free exchange of ideas on this platform can further contribute to the development of international relations and communication," He added.

Douglas H.Paal, former vice president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, delivers a speech at the 2019 International Media Forum.Douglas H.Paal, former vice president of Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, explained the impact of media on US-China relations from a historical perspective. He offered the audience a backdrop on how China and the West had been interacting over hundreds of years through media and explained how the landscape of media had been changing, given the changes in the bilateral relationship, and moving factors. "Media has to pay more attention to fact-checking, not just relying on politicians as they have a very different starting point and intentions," Paal said.

Robert A. Kapp, former president of the US-China Business Council speaks at the 2019 International Forum. Robert A. Kapp, former president of the US-China Business council, offered his insights on China-US relations. He believes that the interpretation of history is constantly changing and being reinterpreted, which challenges the former understandings of history. He says that media should not slice the US and China into two separate worlds. It is both US' and China's responsibility to make sure that the media defends understanding through knowledge, rather than transcending trends.

Nathan Rich, technical executive and political commentator, speaks at the 2019 International Forum. Nathan Rich, technical executive and political commentator, said he believes that the miscommunication between China and the West lies in the fact that there is only one lexicon of views in the West about China, resulting in the lack of knowledge on "how China sees itself and the world." Having lived in China for some time, Rich expressed his hope for China to push outward, engage her global reach, defend against rumors and assumptions and get her voice heard by the rest of the world. He said, "Social media is an extension of who we are, but it has changed the landscape of who we are." Rich believes that there should be an entity responsible for the neutrality of news reports in the media.

Ei Sun Oh, senior fellow at Singapore Institute of International Affairs and Principal Adviser of the Pacific Research Center of Malaysia, gives a speech at the 2019 International Media Forum. Ei Sun OH, a senior fellow at Singapore Institute of International Affairs and principal adviser of the Pacific Research Center of Malaysia, spoke from a Southeast Asian perspective. He said, "Today is a time of extreme demands, euphemism for the spread of terrorism."On cross-cultural commenting, he said everything needs to be laid out from several perspectives. ''We need to wear several hats, and look at issues from the China perspective and the American perspective. Nobody should be advocating for wars against nations, and everyone, especially media professionals, should carry the responsibility of advocating for peace," he said.Hailing the forum a success, Xue Xiaole, the deputy general secretary of the Global Times Foundation, said that it is highly significant for journalists and media scholars to come together to discuss issues that are relevant in this day and age. It is also the responsibility of media scholars and practitioners to help create a healthier environment for international relations and communications, he added. (The author is a student at the School of Journalism and Communication of Peking University.) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement