Staff members perform during the "India Day" event at the Beijing International Horticultural Exhibition in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 17, 2019. (Xinhua/Zhang Chenlin)  

An Indian student practises Taichi during a Taichi and Yoga show at the Temple of Heaven in Beijing, capital of China, May 15, 2015. (Xinhua/Pang Xinglei) People-to-people and cultural exchanges between China and India are flourishing."Practicing yoga, drinking Indian black tea and watching Bollywood movies have become the fashion among Chinese youth. Chinese movie stars such as Jackie Chan are household names in India. People in India enjoy acupuncture, martial arts and Chinese cuisine," said Chinese Ambassador to India Sun Weidong. 

Freshmen of the India-China Yoga College of Yunnan Minzu University practise yoga in Kunming, southwest China's Yunnan Province, June 21, 2018. (Xinhua/Xie Ziyi)  

Attendees pose for a group photo during the China-India Youth Talks held in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 28, 2019. (Xinhua/Sun Ruibo)  



Photo taken on Sept. 23, 2019 shows the brass handicrafts exhibited at the exhibition area of India during the 16th China-ASEAN Expo in Nanning, capital of south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. (Xinhua/Nong Guanbin)  



A tourist gets a Henna tattoo at the India Garden during the "India Day" event at the Beijing International Horticultural Exhibition in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 17, 2019. (Xinhua/Zhang Chenlin)  



Indian children watch the demonstration of Chinese traditional block printing at the 24th New Delhi World Book Fair in New Delhi, India, Jan. 9, 2016. (Xinhua/Bi Xiaoyang)  



Indian Bollywood dancers perform during a rehearsal of the China Central Television (CCTV)'s 2013 New Year Gala in Beijing, capital of China, Dec. 30, 2012. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong)  



An Indian viewer waits to watch Chinese movies during the Chinese Film Festival in Kolkata, capital of eastern Indian state West Bengal, on July 17, 2016. (Xinhua/Tumpa Mondal)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  A glimpse of India's Mamallapuram Asian century impossible without China-India cooperation   Mutual fair market access key to Sino-Indian ties Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Girls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific AirshowSurviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenship