South Sudan's Vice President James Wani Igga (L) addresses delegates during the First South Sudan-China Think Tank Forum organized under the theme"Strengthening Friendship Towards a Shared Future" in Juba, South Sudan, on Oct.25, 2019. (Photo: Xinhua) The increased engagement between South Sudan and China is rather important for the East African country's political, economic and infrastructural development prospects, experts said. South Sudan, being the world's youngest nation, can borrow huge lessons from China's development models such as poverty alleviation, economic development and boosting foreign investment, Liu Hongwu, director of the Institute of African Studies at Zhejiang Normal University, said during the first South Sudan- China Think Tank forum, which kicked off in Juba on Friday. "China and Africa cooperation especially in training and infrastructure are very important and can enable the continent to develop very quickly especially a country like South Sudan," Liu said. "China and Africa are important for each other and the close cooperation is important for African development," he added. Huang Meibo, director of International Development Corporation Academy at Shanghai University of International Business and Economics, said since China opened its doors to the world forty years ago, relations between Beijing and Africa have grown tremendously in the field of trade, politics and infrastructure development. She said that South Sudan needs to develop friendly investment policies in order to attract more foreign direct investment in the areas of roads, bridges, railway and technology. "The government needs to provide good and stable policies for outside investors so that they come and explore opportunities," Huang said. The forum focused on three key areas namely politics, governance and economy, brought together South Sudanese and Chinese scholars, researchers, experts and civil society leaders to discuss opportunities the two countries can tap into to achieve development. Li Xuedong, Vice director of East African Studies at Zhejiang Normal University, said South Sudan should seek close ties with China so that it can benefit from Beijing's development models. "How China has achieved development in the past seventy years is: first, strong leadership from the Communist Party of China. Second, economic development, and third, promote cultural development," Li said. "I think South Sudan can learn from our experience. They may have some implications for the future political, economic as well as cultural development in South Sudan," he added. Samson Wasara, director of the Institute of Peace, Development and Security Studies at the University of Juba said China's engagement with South Sudan since it gained independence from Sudan in July 2011, in critical areas like humanitarian assistance and peacekeeping operations has saved lives in the country. "Most Chinese humanitarian outreach contribution activities to peace and security take many forms. China deploys engineers to contribute the peace and reconstruction in this country, China also supports the health sector in various forms," said Wasara. "People in South Sudan like their African brothers and sisters appreciate the assistance of China in various sectors of our society," he added. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  South Sudan's economy improving due to prevailing peace: minister China donates over 2,000 metric tons of rice to WFP for school meals in South Sudan Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Rose queensPG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying