Local workers busy working at a shoe-making production line in Hotan, Northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region. Photo: Chen Qingqing/GT Northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region has helped 126,627 poor residents from 22 poverty-stricken counties in southern Xinjiang find jobs between 2018 and September 2019, accomplishing the target ahead of schedule. Assisting poor families to gain employment is one important way of eradicating poverty in Xinjiang. In 2018, the region made a plan to help 100,000 residents in extreme poverty  find jobs within three years, the Xinjiang Daily reported on Saturday. "I now work in a factory in my village while I can still take care of my family. I earn 2,000 yuan ($283) a month and have saved more than 10,000 yuan after working in the factory for nearly a year," Ayiniyazi Kudilaiti, a resident from Shache county of Kashi Prefecture told the newspaper. In March 2018, the working group stationed in Ayiniyazi's village cooperated with an apparel factory to set a plant in the village. Many villagers who are willing to work were trained and worked there. Some of them are like Ayiniyazi and come from families which had low incomes. Helping villagers find jobs is not the end to lift them out of poverty. Xinjiang also offered free vocational training to 186,300 people from poverty-stricken families.Together with a dozen of her workmates, Ayiniyazi went to Jinan in East China's Shandong Province to learn sewing skills. She is capable of teaching others and has been promoted to the position of assistant manager at her factory.  Xinjiang is the main cotton production area in China. Xinjiang helped poor families find jobs in both state-owned and private companies, and assisted people in opening restaurants or small businesses. "We will carry on helping poor residents get a stable job, learn vocational skills and ensure their incomes. We will make sure that they will get rid of poverty, have more income and get a better life," said Li Hongwu, a director from Xinjiang's Human Resources and Social Security Department.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Employees, experts refute US accusation over Xinjiang ‘forced labor’ Xinjiang’s development will leave vilifiers shamefaced Xinjiang benefits from stability Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Rose queensPG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying