Chinese Premier Li Keqiang meets with former US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 23, 2019. (Xinhua/Yao Dawei)Chinese Premier Li Keqiang on Wednesday met with former US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson in Beijing. Li said that faced with the complex international landscape, China resolutely expands its opening up, follows the path of peaceful development, and is ready to work with other countries including the United States to promote world peace, development and cooperation. The two sides should follow the consensus reached by the two heads of state, properly manage and control differences on the basis of equality and mutual respect, and push forward the bilateral relations to achieve win-win results through cooperation, Li said. Li said he hopes the Paulson Foundation will continue to play a positive role in developing China-US relations and enhancing mutual understanding between the two peoples. Paulson said US-China relations are at a crucial moment. 

Chinese Premier Li Keqiang meets with former US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 23, 2019. (Xinhua/Yao Dawei) This year marks the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries. The two countries and the rest of the world have undergone great changes, and the two countries need to find a new way of managing their bilateral ties, Paulson said. He also expressed his hope that both countries could make joint efforts to push forward the development of their economic and trade relations to benefit the two peoples. The Paulson Foundation will continue to contribute its wisdom and strength to the development of US-China ties, he added. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US PG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific Airshow