People view humanoid robots called Pepper at Christchurch Airport in Christchurch, New Zealand, Oct. 16, 2019. Christchurch Airport has added robot Pepper to its study of disruptive technologies, alongside the Autonomous Smart Shuttle and Virtual Reality training for its fire service. From this week, Pepper is living and learning in the Digital Innovation Zone on the first floor of the airport terminal, opposite South bar, for a few hours each Monday to Friday. (Photo by Zhu Qiping/Xinhua)  

People view a humanoid robot called Pepper at Christchurch Airport in Christchurch, New Zealand, Oct. 16, 2019. Christchurch Airport has added robot Pepper to its study of disruptive technologies, alongside the Autonomous Smart Shuttle and Virtual Reality training for its fire service. From this week, Pepper is living and learning in the Digital Innovation Zone on the first floor of the airport terminal, opposite South bar, for a few hours each Monday to Friday. (Photo by Zhu Qiping/Xinhua)  

Photo taken on Oct. 16, 2019 shows a humanoid robot called Pepper at Christchurch Airport in Christchurch, New Zealand. Christchurch Airport has added robot Pepper to its study of disruptive technologies, alongside the Autonomous Smart Shuttle and Virtual Reality training for its fire service. From this week, Pepper is living and learning in the Digital Innovation Zone on the first floor of the airport terminal, opposite South bar, for a few hours each Monday to Friday. (Photo by Zhu Qiping/Xinhua)  

Photo taken on Oct. 16, 2019 shows a humanoid robot called Pepper at Christchurch Airport in Christchurch, New Zealand. Christchurch Airport has added robot Pepper to its study of disruptive technologies, alongside the Autonomous Smart Shuttle and Virtual Reality training for its fire service. From this week, Pepper is living and learning in the Digital Innovation Zone on the first floor of the airport terminal, opposite South bar, for a few hours each Monday to Friday. (Photo by Zhu Qiping/Xinhua)     
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Robots from on high Chinese firm uses robots for tunnel construction Robots of the future Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Girls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific AirshowSurviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenship