Police officers raid the Hal Far center in Birzebbuga, Malta, Oct. 21, 2019. Over 100 migrants, including ringleaders of a riot, were arrested at a reception center in Malta on Monday. The riot occurred at the Hal Far center late on Sunday night. It was sparked by a row over a drunk migrant being banned from entering the center. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua) 

Torched vehicles are seen at the Hal Far center in Birzebbuga, Malta, Oct. 21, 2019. Over 100 migrants, including ringleaders of a riot, were arrested at a reception center in Malta on Monday. The riot occurred at the Hal Far center late on Sunday night. It was sparked by a row over a drunk migrant being banned from entering the center. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua) 



Arrested migrants are seen at the Hal Far center in Birzebbuga, Malta, Oct. 21, 2019. Over 100 migrants, including ringleaders of a riot, were arrested at a reception center in Malta on Monday. The riot occurred at the Hal Far center late on Sunday night. It was sparked by a row over a drunk migrant being banned from entering the center. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua) Over 100 migrants, including ringleaders of a riot, were arrested at a reception center in Malta on Monday. The riot occurred at the Hal Far center late on Sunday night. It was sparked by a row over a drunk migrant being banned from entering the center. "While a small group of immigrants incited a riot that spread to around 300 people, a considerable number of other migrants did not take part in any way," said Malta's Home Affairs Minister Michael Farrugia. 

An arrested migrant is seen at the Hal Far center in Birzebbuga, Malta, Oct. 21, 2019. the Hal Far center in Birzebbuga, Malta, Oct. 21, 2019. Over 100 migrants, including ringleaders of a riot, were arrested at a reception center in Malta on Monday. The riot occurred at the Hal Far center late on Sunday night. It was sparked by a row over a drunk migrant being banned from entering the center. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua) 

A torched car is seen at the Hal Far center in Birzebbuga, Malta, Oct. 21, 2019. Over 100 migrants, including ringleaders of a riot, were arrested at a reception center in Malta on Monday. The riot occurred at the Hal Far center late on Sunday night. It was sparked by a row over a drunk migrant being banned from entering the center. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua) Around 50 police officers raided the center on Monday morning and searched for weapons. More than a hundred people were arrested and driven away after the raid, the Times of Malta reported, quoting the minister. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US PG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific Airshow