Police officers arrest protesters in London, Britain, Oct. 7, 2019. London police confirmed 21 arrests so far in the central part of the British capital on Monday morning at the start of two weeks of protests by environmental campaigners. (Photo by Ray Tang/Xinhua) 

A protester (L) talks with a police officer during a demonstration in London, Britain, Oct. 7, 2019. London police confirmed 21 arrests so far in the central part of the British capital on Monday morning at the start of two weeks of protests by environmental campaigners. (Photo by Ray Tang/Xinhua) 



Environmental activists stage a protest in London, Britain, Oct. 7, 2019. London police confirmed 21 arrests so far in the central part of the British capital on Monday morning at the start of two weeks of protests by environmental campaigners. (Photo by Ray Tang/Xinhua) 



Police officers arrest a protester in London, Britain, Oct. 7, 2019. London police confirmed 21 arrests so far in the central part of the British capital on Monday morning at the start of two weeks of protests by environmental campaigners. (Photo by Ray Tang/Xinhua) 



Police officers try to cut free a protester from an abandoned car in London, Britain, Oct. 7, 2019. London police confirmed 21 arrests so far in the central part of the British capital on Monday morning at the start of two weeks of protests by environmental campaigners. (Photo by Ray Tang/Xinhua)Police officers try to cut free a protester from an abandoned car in London, Britain, Oct. 7, 2019. London police confirmed 21 arrests so far in the central part of the British capital on Monday morning at the start of two weeks of protests by environmental campaigners. (Photo by Ray Tang/Xinhua)  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Thousands protest in Kiev against autonomy plan for E. Ukraine UK completes Thomas Cook repatriation of passengers S.Korea's nuke envoy to visit Washington for talks over Korean Peninsula affairs Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Surviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenshipHorse dancing  College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in US