A high-speed train in Shanghai railway station. Photo: VCG
As part of a recently filed prospectus, profitability data for the Chinese railway operator has been released for the first time. It showed that some of its subsidiaries have realized profits while two-thirds reported losses, with the Guangzhou-Hong Kong High-speed Railway being among the profitable subsidiaries.
A company under the China State Railway Group that operates the Beijing-Shanghai section of China's high-speed railway network is in the process of filing for a formal application to go public. As part of this filing, it has released profitability data for itself and other subsidiaries of the China State Railway Group, including 18 railway bureaus.
According to its prospectus which was published by the China Securities Regulatory Commission on Friday, six of the 18 railway bureaus made positive net profits in 2018, with the Taiyuan bureau performing the best, having recorded a net profit of 9.6 billion yuan ($1.36 billion).
In 2018, the China State Railway Group's overall revenue reached 1.1 trillion yuan, and its net profit was 2 billion yuan. The 18 railway bureaus are the Group's major income sources, and the total assets of all bureaus are almost equal to the total assets of the Group, according to the prospectus.
The net profits of both Wuhan and Zhengzhou railway bureaus exceeded 5 billion yuan. As the only railway bureau with total assets over 1 trillion yuan, the Shanghai bureau reported a net profit of 1.7 billion yuan last year. Xi 'an and Nanchang railway bureaus were recorded between 1.4 billion and 1.6 billion.
The Guangzhou-Hong Kong High-speed Railway brought in a net profit of 565 million yuan in 2018, and 426 million yuan in the first half of this year.
In addition to the above six railway bureaus, others booked losses in 2018, with most recording losses of less than 5 billion. The bureaus of Chengdu, Harbin and Shenyang have lost more than 10 billion yuan collectively.
The China State Railway Group's overall debt exceeds 5 trillion yuan, and its asset-liability ratio is about 65 percent. The same ratio of each railway bureau largely falls between 30 and 40 percent, according to the prospectus.
 
  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Beijing-Shanghai high-speed railway outstrips industry Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Rose queensPG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying