Greek Ambassador to China Leonidas Rokanas Photo: Li Hao/GTEditor's Note: Besides the 70th anniversary of the People's Republic of China, 2019 also marks the 47th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Greece. Global Times reporter Dong Feng (GT) recently had an exclusive interview with the Greek Ambassador to China Leonidas Rokanas (Rokanas), speaking on a range of issues including multilateral collaboration and bilateral ties.GT: From your point of view, how do you see China's evolvement in international relations in the past 70 years? Rokanas: Thank you very much for this opportunity to speak on this very historic moment for China. It is indeed something to celebrate. Most importantly, it is about what China has been able to achieve in the last 70 years, in terms of economic and social development, in terms of science and technological advancements etc. The last 70 years are a part of the brilliant and fascinating Chinese history, which lasted over 5,000 years. For me, the most important event, in these 70 years, has been the tremendous success and historic achievement of combating poverty, being able to lift more than 850 million people from the scourge of misery and poverty. This is not just an economic event, but a symbol of fundamental significance for the dignity of the Chinese people and the country. Also, globally it is impressive as a very important contribution to combating global poverty. China has acted in the same way globally through trade, economic activity, and its development assistance and through the Belt and Road Initiative, promoting international development. I think this is significant, and falls within the sustainable development goals of the UN Agenda 2030, which is the most advanced consensus that we have on the future of humanity. Education also, has been a privileged sphere in Chinese tradition where Confucius professed about the utility and the unique character of education for the development of individuals and nations; in this respect, Chinese efforts are consistent with Chinese history. In terms of health, life expectancy has also taken off impressively over the last 70 years in China. The 70 years of the PRC have been a historic milestone, and through this, we should measure everything else.GT: What is the significance of China's domestic development for the world?Rokanas: China's internal development is important for not only China but also for the world at large. China's economic development has been unique in history, especially after 1978. It is an unprecedented and a phenomenal performance that has to be further studied. Many of us outside China could and should learn from this example and this experiment. Between 1978 and 2018, in those forty years, Chinese economy has increased 30 times.China has seen an average annual GDP growth rate of more than 9.5 percent between 1978 and 2018.These are world records and reveal something about the potential of the Chinese people: They illustrate how an ancient civilization can re-dynamize its presence in global affairs, and how it can inspire its people with new confidence in them. This is an example of how an ancient nation has actually found the wisdom and power to rise again, and restart in the new era, and this is what people should take pride in and learn from. So you have both continuity and a radical turn. And this is the essence of this great phenomenon of the 20th and 21st centuries, which is China.GT: What about international relations, what characteristics of China have you noticed? Rokanas: China's international relations also reflect the socio-economic and other pragmatic conditions of your country. What is remarkable about China is what your leaders proclaim: This is not the force of hegemony, nor power politics, but the power to move towards achieving excellence through peace, stability, wisdom, and harmony. As we go into the 21st century, I think there is a long-standing historic tendency for the reduction in violence, both in domestic and international affairs. Peace is gradually taking the main stage. The new spirit that China also brings is that of peaceful coexistence, resolution of international disputes through dialogue, respect for one another, for international law and international norms. We move into a new era with great global challenges [e.g. the ecological problems through climate change, destruction of biodiversity, deforestation, pollution and degradation of the oceans]. In this new era, China's international role is congruent and in harmony with the trend of humanity to move towards peace and collaboration, working together to deal with the common challenges of our times. GT: How do you find China's stance against the backdrop of globalization? Rokanas: I think globalization has to do with increased connectivity, collaboration, as well as tackling common challenges. China's international stance and position is very much in line with these epochal trends. What we witness is that China is a nation that does not seem to wish to become a superpower in the same old fashion that we have seen in history, and your leadership talks about a new type of international relations and governance. According to its leaders, China does not mean the destruction of international order; on the contrary, it means intensification of bonds, dialogue and the creation of a new strategy, which is based on working together, while dealing with common challenges, increasing added value and growing our collective wealth through collaboration. Through trade, for example, we all stand to benefit and the world's wealth is also increased. It's good to have free trade within a globalized planet. I'm very glad that China also respects the international trade system with the WTO at its core. China's international relations are a very interesting example of how a big country with a very long history is trying to make a new contribution to the historic developments and challenges of our century. GT: How do you see China's role in multilateralism?Rokanas: One of the main characteristics of foreign policy of China, of Greece and of every other country, is the importance it attaches to the UN Charter and its values, which I consider as the quintessence of today's ecumenical or global consensus where all nations stand and work together. The role of China is remarkable within the international system and under the Charter and the principles of the UN: as a responsible member of the UN Security Council, as well as in peace-keeping. China is one of the protagonists of the UN Agenda 2030 that reflects a crucial international consensus for combating the most important challenges of humanity today. The role that China can and must play as a champion of multilateralism, safeguarding multilateral order is also very important, constructive, and useful for other countries too, and we are willing to work with China in this field. GT: Do you also see the evolvement of bilateral ties between Greece and China? Rokanas: We are extremely happy to be a good friend of China. Our friendship is characterized by profound respect for each other. This trust and confidence are mutual and quasi spontaneous, and are due, I think, to our very historic civilizations that have influenced greatly the global events for millennia, in the East and the West. Our civilizations are pivotal to understanding global developments. Greece, having faced numerous challenges, has also beenreborn as a modern state after the Revolution of 1821, and we are going to celebrate these 200 years in 2021.   Our bilateral relations keep on growing with increased dynamism and I am indeed very optimistic. I am convinced that following the formation of a new government of Greece after the elections of last July, this is going to be a very prosperous and hopeful period in our relations. Various high-level visits are planned over the next few months including the visit, in a few days, of the Greek Minister of Development and Investment, Mr. Adonis Georgiades, for expanding bilateral economic collaboration and for participating in the Steering Committee of the important "Cooperation Plan on Key Areas" between the two countries. Towards the end of October, we also have the 3rd Ancient Civilizations Forum Ministerial Conference in Beijing, a Greek initiative established back in 2017, and actively embraced and supported by China. Most significant, in the next few weeks, is the visit of the new Greek Prime Minister Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, heading an important government and business delegation in order to participate in the 2nd Shanghai CIIE, where Greece is a Country of Honor, an important visit demonstrating the determination of the new government of Greece to inject new impetus and dynamism to our friendship and economic exchanges, and to create a brilliant new chapter in our relations. Last but not the least, Greece, earlier this year, joined  the 16+1 cooperation Mechanism between China and the Central and Eastern European countries (CEEC), becoming its 18th member. Greece will be represented at the highest level in the 17+1 Summit in 2020, to be held in Beijing. Greece has come out victorious, stronger, and more confident from the recent dire international economic crisis, thanks to the wide-ranging structural reforms. Under the new government of Greece, our country is already adopting measures aimed at creating a more attractive environment enabling investment and stronger growth and business development. The new government of Greece has a very specific plan for the future that will lead us towards more intensive and quality growth. With positive growth rates close to 2 percent, over and above the European and Eurozone average, Greece is now particularly attractive to foreign investors, including Chinese enterprises that are already taking advantage of the opportunity. There are already numerous Chinese investment projects in Greece and among them, the most emblematic one is Cosco's investment in Piraeus Port the so-called "Head of the Dragon." Greece's unique geographic position as a bridge between three continents, Europe, Asia and Africa, has given rise to the Piraeus Port's prominence in the Mediterranean Sea and beyond. The signing of the Belt and Road MoU in August 2018, underscored Greece's role as an important hub in the BRI. Greece's successful relations with China are in fact a catalyst also for the China-EU relations.We have always tried within the EU to facilitate and make this relationship with China more successful, harmonious, balanced and transparent, and give it a new impetus; this means that our relationship with China is mutually reinforcing and not to the detriment of other relations we have with any other country. GT: How effective do you find China's foreign policy?Rokanas: China's foreign policy and relationship with the world has been a positive factor for the co-development of all nations on the planet. China has been playing an important role in combating common challenges such as the ecological degradation, epidemics, terrorism, etc. As a responsible economic actor, and as a big engine of growth, China has a GDP of more than $13 trillion, combined with extraordinary growth rates, and all these produce a huge positive impact on global economy. In this respect, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) is an example of a significant, novel, strategic, and multi-faceted initiative undertaken by China and the participating countries: BRI has a people-to-people side, infrastructure and connectivity sides, as well as a cultural and tourism dimension. Connectivity is a channel through which much more can be achieved. Those countries that are participating in the BRI all want to function on an equal basis, in a peaceful and collaborative manner.  Those 70 years are very important because China has taken a radical turn. China has been self-sufficient and self-confident in the past; its international activity was defensive. In the last 70 years, China is becoming a world actor, a positive world player, a major power. China has taken a turn and the key word is "reform" and "opening-up." These key words, "reform" and "opening-up," actually go together because you cannot open up without reform.Because of this fundamental decision, in the maritime sector for example, China is now the third shipping nation in the world and we have common interests in international trade and the free shipping. Policy turns and breaking from old habits that are not adequate for the new times, have provided a positive change of direction and have facilitated China's rise again. All that can be attributed first and foremost to the Chinese people, but also to the governance and the leaders of the CPC that have guided its rise through painful decisions and discipline, in war and peace, so that this country can stand on its feet again. In the Greek and Western philosophical tradition, as observed by Aristotle, politics and political decisions are the epitome of human action, and the most dominant [viz. decisive ] and most "architectural" of all arts, because politics makes everything else happen and forms the environment in which we live in. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Girls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific AirshowSurviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenship