People walk pass Tokyo District Court entrance in Tokyo, Japan, Jan. 8, 2019. Nissan Motor Co.'s former Chairman Carlos Ghosn on Tuesday appeared in public for the first time since his arrest on Nov. 19 at a Tokyo court where he robustly maintained his innocence regarding allegations of financial misconduct that has led to his lengthy detention. At the request of Ghosn and his lawyers, he was granted permission to voice his opinions in the court for the first time since his arrest on the allegations he vastly under-reported his remuneration and other charges. Photo:Xinhua
A Canadian father who alleges he was bullied and fired by his Japanese employer after he tried to claim paternity leave appeared in a Tokyo court Wednesday to pursue his lawsuit against the firm.
It is the second paternity leave harassment case to be heard in Japan in recent weeks, casting a rare spotlight on the issue in a country struggling with one of the world's lowest birth rates.
Glen Wood, 49, a resident of Japan for three decades, was working at brokerage house Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities when his son was born prematurely in October 2015.
Wood says he applied for paternity leave before his son was born in Nepal, where his partner was working, seeking to exercise a right guaranteed by Japanese law.
But, he says, the firm dragged its feet, and he even submitted a DNA test to prove his relation to his son.
"I knew it was a sort of old-fashioned thinking type of company but I was still very surprised, even when it was an emergency and my son was in the ICU [intensive care unit], that they wouldn't let me take paternity leave," he told AFP before the hearing Wednesday.
"I think it was viewed really as an act of treason for a man to take paternity leave," he added.
It was not until Christmas Day 2015 that he received approval to take leave and see his son.
He returned to work in March 2016 after bringing his baby to Japan but alleges he was subsequently sidelined at work, treatment for his depression and taking six months of medical leave. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Two-thirds of children live in countries where Dads don't get paternity leave: UNICEF Spanish Congress grants equal paternity leave for men Britain outlines longer paternity leave plan Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Surviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenshipHorse dancing  College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in US