China's icebreaker Xuelong 2 sails near the equator, Oct. 24, 2019. China's first domestically made polar icebreaker Xuelong 2, or Snow Dragon 2, crossed the equator and entered the southern hemisphere for the China's 36th Antarctic expedition after it started its maiden voyage from the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen on Oct. 15. (Xinhua/Liu Shiping)  

Members of China's 36th Antarctic expedition team participate in a tug-of-war competition aboard Xuelong 2 to mark its crossing the equator, Oct. 24, 2019. China's first domestically made polar icebreaker Xuelong 2, or Snow Dragon 2, crossed the equator and entered the southern hemisphere for the China's 36th Antarctic expedition after it started its maiden voyage from the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen on Oct. 15. (Xinhua/Liu Shiping)  



Members of China's 36th Antarctic expedition team pose for photos aboard Xuelong 2 to mark its crossing the equator, Oct. 24, 2019. China's first domestically made polar icebreaker Xuelong 2, or Snow Dragon 2, crossed the equator and entered the southern hemisphere for the China's 36th Antarctic expedition after it started its maiden voyage from the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen on Oct. 15. (Xinhua/Liu Shiping)  



Members of China's 36th Antarctic expedition team pose for photos aboard Xuelong 2 to mark its crossing the equator, Oct. 24, 2019. China's first domestically made polar icebreaker Xuelong 2, or Snow Dragon 2, crossed the equator and entered the southern hemisphere for the China's 36th Antarctic expedition after it started its maiden voyage from the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen on Oct. 15. (Xinhua/Liu Shiping) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Rose queensPG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying