Screenshoot of surveillance video shows Li was likely molested by a man the night before she died. Photo: Sina Weibo

Screenshoot of surveillance video shows Li was abused by two men and one woman the night before she died. Photo: Sina WeiboThe death of a female sophomore student in Kunming, Southwest China's Yunnan Province has raised questions about the local police, with the public urging police to publish detailed investigative results to ease the victim's family's and public concerns.Li Xincao, 19, from Kunming University of Science and Technology, died on September 9. On Saturday, a Sina Weibo user who claimed to be Li's mother, said that in the early hours of September 9, police informed her about her daughter's death and that her daughter agreed to jump into the river with others, and then drowned. But the mother said that she doubted the police inquiry into her daughter's death after seeing the surveillance video, which showed Li at a bar before she drowned. In this video, Li was likely molested and abused by two men and one woman.Li's mother dismissed the claim that her daughter died by suicide, and repeatedly urged the police to reinvestigate but was refused.Her posts soon attracted public opinion in China, with many netizens calling on the local police to reconstruct the incident. In response, police in Kunming's Panlong district issued a statement on Saturday, saying that the case is being given priority. It vowed to assign a team to investigate the matter, and to promptly publish the results.National media, such as the People's Daily, weighed in on the case. It said on Sina Weibo on Monday that "the dignity of a 'little grass' must be protected." "Solving the mystery behind Li's death can comfort a mother, and to show respect to people's lives. In a society ruled by law, the public has reason to believe that justice won't be drowned, and that the truth will come out," it said.On Monday morning, the public were angered by a police-released three-hour surveillance video of the bar, which concluded Li accidentally fell into the river and ruled out the possibility of a crime. Hashtag "Police said Li Xincao died by accidentally falling into a river" was viewed more than 840 million times on Sina Weibo as of press time, with many netizens saying that after watching the surveillance video, they were unconvinced.Kunming police slammed the report, saying they have not yet published any investigation report on Li's death so far.They also told the Beijing News that they don't have Li's autopsy report yet, and that the case is still being investigated. "The report was not true and we never published it," the police said.Although the case remains unsolved, the credibility of the Kunming police has already been questioned. Some netizens even made reference to the case of Sun Xiaoguo, a Kunming resident, who was sentenced to death two decades ago, but was found this year to be roaming free and the alleged leader of a criminal gang.The police should try their best to answer Li's mother', and the public's concerns over the case as soon as possible, Zhu Wei, a professor at the China University of Political Science and Law, told the Global Times on Monday, adding that the public should also trust the police. After all, the police have more resources.Zhu said that public trust in the public security department was built on police's swift and effective response to high-profile cases. He noted that the police and related authorities, including courts and procuratorates, have to shorten their response time in the internet era, aside from conducting fair and transparent investigations. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Rapist’s network probed Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Girls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific AirshowSurviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenship