A pair of newborn white lion twin cubs are pictured at Wild World Jinan, a wildlife park in Jinan, capital of east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 9, 2019. A white lion mother gave birth to a pair of twin cubs on Oct. 2 at Wild World Jinan. The two newborn cubs, a male and a female, are in good health condition and will meet public visitors following an observation period. The white lion is a rare wildlife species mostly found in southern Africa. (Xinhua/Wang Kai) 

A pair of newborn white lion twin cubs are pictured at Wild World Jinan, a wildlife park in Jinan, capital of east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 9, 2019. A white lion mother gave birth to a pair of twin cubs on Oct. 2 at Wild World Jinan. The two newborn cubs, a male and a female, are in good health condition and will meet public visitors following an observation period. The white lion is a rare wildlife species mostly found in southern Africa. (Xinhua/Wang Kai) 



A staff member feeds milk to a newborn white lion cub at Wild World Jinan, a wildlife park in Jinan, capital of east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 9, 2019. (Xinhua/Wang Kai) 



A newborn white lion cub is pictured at Wild World Jinan, a wildlife park in Jinan, capital of east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 9, 2019. (Xinhua/Wang Kai) 



A pair of newborn white lion twin cubs are pictured at Wild World Jinan, a wildlife park in Jinan, capital of east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 9, 2019. A white lion mother gave birth to a pair of twin cubs on Oct. 2 at Wild World Jinan. The two newborn cubs, a male and a female, are in good health condition and will meet public visitors following an observation period. The white lion is a rare wildlife species mostly found in southern Africa. (Xinhua/Wang Kai) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Surviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenshipHorse dancing  College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in US