Chinese Vice Premier Liu He, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chief of the Chinese side of the China-U.S. comprehensive economic dialogue, attends a new round of high-level economic and trade consultations together with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin in Washington D.C., the United States, Oct. 10, 2019. (Xinhua/Liu Jie) The latest round of trade talks between China and the United States has sent "a positive sign" and shown that their current differences are "resolvable," a senior US scholar said. "It is obviously a positive sign that they are sending to the public," Sourabh Gupta, a senior fellow at the Washington-based Institute for China-America Studies, told Xinhua in a recent interview. 

Krimson Klover's CEO and founder Rhonda Swenson shows a jacket made in China in Boulder, Colorado, the United States, Sept. 12, 2019. "What it seems to give the impression off is that they are trying to create a floor they need for which their trade conflict will not slip any further," Gupta said. The Oct. 10-11 high-level economic and trade consultations in Washington concluded with substantial progress in areas including agriculture, intellectual property rights, currency exchange rates, financial services, expansion of trade and technology transfers. Highlighting China's move to further open up its financial sector, Gupta said the differences between the two countries are resolvable this time.

Grant Kimberley, a sixth-generation soybean farmer and marketing director of the Iowa Soybean Association, operates a seeding machine at his family farm in Maxwell, Iowa, the United States, April 26, 2019. (Xinhua/Wang Ying)  China's securities regulator announced last week a clear timetable for allowing full foreign ownership of financial service companies covering the sectors of fund management, brokerage and futures."This is just good because as China moves from a manufacturing-led and investment-led economy to a service-led and consumption-led economy, financial services sector plays a very important role in intermediating finance across the whole economy," the scholar said, adding that it "will do a great deal of good for China on (a) new growth model going forward." 

A model presents a creation of a Chinese company during the 20th China Textile and Apparel Trade Show in New York, the United States, July 22, 2019.(Xinhua/Wang Ying) He said that there are US investors who are "absolutely keen" to operate and work in the Chinese market. "There's still a lot of positive investor sentiment for the medium and long term and using China as a hub for manufacturing." During the first eight months of this year, China saw over 27,000 more foreign-owned businesses enter the Chinese market, and the actual use of foreign capital exceed 600 billion yuan (84.7 billion US dollars), according to official statistics. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US PG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific Airshow