Security forces stand guard as protesters gather near al-Nisour Square in Baghdad, Iraq, on Oct. 28, 2019. The Iraqi authorities on Monday imposed an overnight curfew in Baghdad, as anti-government demonstrations continued across the capital. (Xinhua/Khalil Dawood) The Iraqi authorities on Monday imposed an overnight curfew in Baghdad, as anti-government demonstrations continued across the capital. A statement by Baghdad Operations Command (BOC), responsible for the security of Baghdad province, said that it has imposed "a curfew on people and the movement of vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles and vehicles of all kinds from midnight until 6:00 a.m. local time (0300 GMT on Tuesday) until further notice." The BOC said that its decision came "in order to protect the demonstrators," and called on all citizens to cooperate for the public interest, according to the statement. The latest move came as demonstrations continued for the fourth successive day in Baghdad and other cities in central and southern provinces, where protesters called for reform, accountability for corrupt officials, public services improvement and job opportunities. The latest wave of demonstrations came after Iraqi Prime Minister Adel Abdul Mahdi made a televised speech, in which he warned of chaos if the government resigns, and promised a cabinet reshuffle, more job opportunities and the establishment of a court to prosecute corrupt officials. 

Security forces stand guard as protesters gather near al-Nisour Square in Baghdad, Iraq, on Oct. 28, 2019. The Iraqi authorities on Monday imposed an overnight curfew in Baghdad, as anti-government demonstrations continued across the capital. (Xinhua/Khalil Dawood) 

Security forces stand guard as protesters gather near al-Nisour Square in Baghdad, Iraq, on Oct. 28, 2019. The Iraqi authorities on Monday imposed an overnight curfew in Baghdad, as anti-government demonstrations continued across the capital. (Xinhua/Khalil Dawood) Earlier this month, massive protests erupted in Baghdad and other central and southern provinces for similar reasons. The Iraqi government responded by presenting packages of reforms aimed at providing job opportunities, building housing complexes, paying stipends to the poor and scaling up the fight against corruption. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  24 killed, over 2,000 wounded in Iraqi protests Iraqi president calls for halt Iraqi president calls for national dialogue amid deadly protests Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Rose queensPG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying