Photo taken on Oct. 13, 2019 shows the damaged Iranian oil tanker SABITI in the Red Sea. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said on Tuesday that the recent attack on the Iranian oil tanker SABITI in the Red Sea is "state-sponsored," state TV reported. Two separate explosions, possibly caused by the "missile strikes," hit the SABITI in the Red Sea some 60 miles (96.6 km) off Saudi Arabia's Jeddah port city on Oct. 11, causing damage to the ship's two main tanks. (Iranian Ministry of Petroleum/Handout via Xinhua) 

Photo taken on Oct. 13, 2019 shows the damaged Iranian oil tanker SABITI in the Red Sea. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said on Tuesday that the recent attack on the Iranian oil tanker SABITI in the Red Sea is "state-sponsored," state TV reported. Two separate explosions, possibly caused by the "missile strikes," hit the SABITI in the Red Sea some 60 miles (96.6 km) off Saudi Arabia's Jeddah port city on Oct. 11, causing damage to the ship's two main tanks. (Iranian Ministry of Petroleum/Handout via Xinhua) Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said on Tuesday that the recent attack on the Iranian oil tanker SABITI in the Red Sea is "state-sponsored," state TV reported. "The attack on the Iranian tanker was a sophisticated, state-sponsored action," Zarif was quoted as saying. On Monday, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said the incident was captured on video and "undoubtedly carried out by a government." Mohammad Rastad, head of Iran's Ports and Shipping Organization, said the vessel is currently sailing in Bab al-Mandeb Strait and will soon reach the Gulf of Aden. It is bound for Bandar Abbas port city in the south of Iran and it is estimated to reach the Iranian port in the next nine days, he added. Two separate explosions, possibly caused by the "missile strikes," hit the SABITI in the Red Sea some 60 miles (96.6 km) off Saudi Arabia's Jeddah port city on Oct. 11, causing damage to the ship's two main tanks. National Iranian Tanker Company subsequently dismissed media reports that the Iranian oil tanker was hit by missiles fired from Saudi Arabia.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Iran's new discovery increases value of natural gas reserves by $40b Iran welcomes Pakistan's efforts for de-escalation in region Pakistan PM Khan arrives in Iran as tensions rise in Gulf region Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims