Officials at the opening ceremony of James Finlay (Guizhou) Tea Co on October 17 Photo: Courtesy of James Finlay (Guizhou) Tea Co China, as the world's largest tea-producing country, has seen a marked increase in tea exports.A tea-processing factory under tea trader James Finlay in Sinan County, Southwest China's Guizhou Province, officially began production recently. It is its first processing factory for the company in China.The plant, with an area of 23,535 square meters, began construction in 2018 with a total investment of 120 million yuan ($16.97 million). It mainly processes various refined teas, with the goal of achieving an annual output of more than 20,000 tons of clean tea by 2023, according to Patrick Watene, managing director of James Finlay (Guizhou) Tea Co. After the construction of the new Sinan port, Guizhou tea processed at the factory will be transported from Sinan to Chongqing, and then on to Europe by land. Alternatively, it could be transported through the Yangtze River Delta to the eastern coastal port of China, and then sold overseas, he said. Guizhou is the largest tea-growing province in China, and it comes with a long history.China's tea planting area accounts for more than half of the world's total tea planting area, and its output accounts for 40 percent of the world's total tea production. The area and production share are 39.3 and 18.6 percentage points higher than India's, the world's second-largest tea-producing country, according to a report from Farmer's Daily under the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs in August.China is not only the world's largest tea-producing country, but is also a major exporter of the world. According to Farmer's Daily, which cited data from the General Administration of Customs, China exported 303,000 tons of green tea valued at $1.22 billion in 2018, accounting for 80.4 percent of China's total tea export volume. China exported 33,000 tons of black tea - one tenth that of green tea.Although China ranks second, after Kenya, in terms of export volume, the value of its tea exports has ranked first in the world since 2015. The exported varieties are mainly green teas, accounting for 70 percent of global green tea exports.Watene said that James Finlay has created an intelligent system that runs through the entire process of planting, sourcing and processing to ensure that the tea it delivers is completely transparent and 100 percent traceable.Founded in 1750, James Finlay is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Swire Group. In 2018, 72 million kilograms of tea were traded from its global supply offices in China, the UK, Kenya, Sir Lanka, the UAE, Malawi, Vietnam, Indonesia and the US. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US PG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific Airshow