This aerial picture shows the Shuri Castle after a fire ripped through the historic site in Naha, Okinawa prefecture, southern Japan on October 31, 2019. Photo: VCGA major fire devastated a historic Japanese castle on the southern island of Okinawa on Thursday morning, destroying large parts of the World Heritage site's complex, local authorities said.The Shuri castle is a key part of the complex dating back to the Ryukyu Kingdom, and is believed to have been in use from around the 1400s. Most of the current structures are reconstructions based on original plans and photos of the old castle.The fire was brought under control by early afternoon, a local fire department spokesperson said, adding that the blaze had consumed more than 4,800 square meters of the castle complex."All the [three] main buildings have burnt down, with nothing left behind," said Daisuke Furugen, another official with the Naha fire department.On the scene, a local fire spokesman said the blaze proved extremely difficult to control."The radiant heat was very strong. Firefighters had serious difficulty approaching it," he said in comments shown on national broadcaster NHK.It was not yet clear what caused the blaze, which was reported to authorities around 2:40 am. There were no reports of injuries. The fire started in the elaborate main building of the complex, a grand red structure with traditional tiling on the roof, and spread quickly to nearby buildings.Television footage showed large orange flames engulfing the castle before sunrise, with daylight revealing the extensive damage done to the site. In some cases little more than charred and smoking wood was left behind."I am extremely saddened by this. I am utterly in shock," Naha Mayor Mikiko Shiroma said. "Naha city will make our greatest possible efforts to do everything in our power" to deal with the fire and its aftermath, she pledged earlier, during an emergency meeting on the fire.The national government pledged it would make "all efforts" to rebuild the site.Officials' preparations related to an ongoing festival at the site had been ongoing until 1:00 am, hours before the blaze erupted. It was not clear whether there was a link to the fire.The complex was largely destroyed during World War II, when the headquarters of the Japanese army was dug underneath the monument.But it was extensively restored, with the work on the main hall based on scale drawings and photographs taken before the destruction, as well as extensive archaeological excavation. The complex reopened as a national park in 1992.Thanks to the faithful nature of the reconstruction, the site along with the remaining ruins was registered along with other Ryukyu sites in the region as a World Heritage Site in 2000. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Okinawa fire at world heritage site won’t impact tourists from China: industry insiders Okinawans vote against US base Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Antique cars highlighted in US auto showsWildfire aftermathRose queens