A villager displays apples for tasting during the "apple conference" held at a village in Mainling County of Nyingchi City, southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region, Oct. 26, 2019. The "apple conference", a training session on the apple business, was held here on Saturday, where more than 20 technicians from Qamdo, Shannan and Nyingchi as well as local villagers received on-site training provided by specialists and discussed about new species and technologies. Photo: Xinhua 

Xie Hongjiang (R front), a researcher from Sichuan Academy of Agricultural Sciences, distributes newly-picked apples to villagers during the "apple conference" held at a village in Mainling County of Nyingchi City, southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region, Oct. 26, 2019. The "apple conference", a training session on the apple business, was held here on Saturday, where more than 20 technicians from Qamdo, Shannan and Nyingchi as well as local villagers received on-site training provided by specialists and discussed about new species and technologies. Photo: Xinhua 

Photo taken on Oct. 26, 2019 shows the "apple conference" held at a village in Mainling County of Nyingchi City, southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region. The "apple conference", a training session on the apple business, was held here on Saturday, where more than 20 technicians from Qamdo, Shannan and Nyingchi as well as local villagers received on-site training provided by specialists and discussed about new species and technologies. Photo: Xinhua 

Villagers prepare apples for tasting during the "apple conference" held at a village in Mainling County of Nyingchi City, southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region, Oct. 26, 2019. The "apple conference", a training session on the apple business, was held here on Saturday, where more than 20 technicians from Qamdo, Shannan and Nyingchi as well as local villagers received on-site training provided by specialists and discussed about new species and technologies. Photo: Xinhua 

Aerial photo taken on Oct. 26, 2019 shows the "apple conference" held at a village in Mainling County of Nyingchi City, southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region. The "apple conference", a training session on the apple business, was held here on Saturday, where more than 20 technicians from Qamdo, Shannan and Nyingchi as well as local villagers received on-site training provided by specialists and discussed about new species and technologies. Photo: Xinhua  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Section of Sichuan-Tibet Highway that stretches down nearly 1,500 meters in the mountains Civil air routes in Tibet exceed 100, connecting the region with 51 cities China-Nepal border town in Tibet welcomes visitors to festival Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Rose queensPG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying