Aerial photo taken on Oct. 13, 2018 shows the Hong Kong section of the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge in Hong Kong, south China. (Xinhua/Lui Siu Wai) The Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao (HZM) Bridge was not used to its full capacity in the bridge's first year of operation. An expert said the situation was mainly because supporting facilities in Hong Kong were not in place, and there was insufficient integrated development in the South China triangle region. Thursday marks the first anniversary of the launch of the massive bridge linking the three cities. A total of 23.43 million passengers have traveled through the Chinese mainland, Hong Kong and Macao via the bridge as of Wednesday. To break down, 66,900 passengers travel on the bridge daily, which is higher than the 48,000 that was predicted when the bridge was launched a year ago, according to the Department of Transportation of South China's Guangdong Province.However, the number of cars and buses that have traveled on the bridge totaled 1.54 million, or 4,212 passes per day. The figure is far below the Hong Kong SAR government's prediction of 9,200 to 14,000 passes in a project feasibility report done in 2008.Lack of closer integration measures, with only a small number of dual license plates for Hong Kong and Macao registered vehicles, caused the underuse of the bridge, Mao Yanhua, a professor at the Institute of Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macao Development Studies at The Sun Yat-sen University, told the Global Times on Thursday.To expand traffic flow on the bridge, the three regions should step up cooperation to overcome obstacles caused by different laws and regulations, Mao said. "For example, Hong Kong doesn't allow Macao-registered cars to stop at Hong Kong and then go on to Shenzhen city. In addition, the number of cars with dual plates account for a very small number of the city's total cars. Even though Guangdong province welcomes passengers from the two cities, how can traffic flow across the bridge rise?" Mao said.The problem indicates that economic cooperation within the region is insufficient, Mao said. "The bridge connects the western part of the Pearl Delta River area on the mainland side. But the manufacturing and exports industry in this part is not as mature as in the eastern part [where Dongguan city is located], It resulted in a limited number of logistical trucks passing the bridge," he said. In a step in the right direction, the Hong Kong Transport Department announced on Thursday that the Guangdong and Hong Kong governments will increase the quota of private Hong Kong cars that are able to cross boundaries on the bridge by 5,000, according to the Hong Kong government website. This will improve cross-boundary traffic between Guangdong and Hong Kong, and will better utilize the bridge.Separately, the two governments have also agreed to increase the quota for mainland cross-boundary private cars using the bridge by 500, the website said.The Guangdong Department of Transportation said it would gradually increase the number of cars and buses that can pass across the bridge. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  One year on, Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge brings convenience, benefits Comparing Hong Kong to Catalonia betrays ignorance Tear away Hong Kong rioters’ masks with AI technologies Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US PG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific Airshow