Photo: ICChinese President Xi Jinping and French President Emmanuel Macron agreed in a phone conversation Tuesday to join hands to uphold multilateralism and tackle global challenges. Xi told Macron that China will continue to unswervingly pursue an opening-up strategy of mutual benefit, and work together with peoples around the world, including the French people, to forge ahead with the construction of a community with a shared future for mankind. Xi thanked Macron for his warm congratulatory message on the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China (PRC). Noting that the French government and people have rendered much help and support to the construction and development of the PRC, Xi stressed that China's development cannot be separated from the rest of the world, and the world's development cannot be separated from China. This year marks the 55th anniversary of China-France diplomatic ties, the Chinese president said, recalling his successful state visit to France in March at the invitation of Macron, during which the two leaders together opened a new chapter for bilateral ties. The two sides have continuously consolidated political mutual trust, achieved new results in practical cooperation in economy, trade, culture, people-to-people and other fields, and made more effective communication and coordination in international affairs, Xi said. The Chinese president said he is willing to maintain exchanges and communication with Macron, and join hands with the French president to push forward bilateral cooperation to yield more high-quality results, uphold multilateralism, oppose unilateralism, promote an open world economy, and tackle global challenges. The Chinese side actively supports France in holding the second Paris Peace Forum, and welcomes France to participate in the second China International Import Expo (CIIE) as a guest country of honor, Xi said. For his part, Macron once again congratulated the PRC on its 70th founding anniversary, saying that France and China enjoy close and lasting relations. He said Xi's state visit to France in March effectively pushed forward the development of the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries. Under the current circumstances, Macron said, it is of great significance to maintain bilateral strategic communication. He said France stands ready to deepen exchanges and cooperation with China in such fields as trade, civil nuclear energy, aviation and culture, jointly revitalize multilateralism, and work together to address major global issues including the environment and climate change. Macron said he is willing to maintain close exchanges with Xi and looks forward to visiting China again in the near future. The French side actively supports the second CIIE, he said. The two heads of state also exchanged views on major international and regional issues of common concern. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Xi, Macron agree to forge more solid, stable, vibrant China-France partnership Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Girls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific AirshowSurviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenship