Pope Francis (right) presides over an evening vigil with young people at the Campo San Juan Pablo II in Panama City, on Saturday. The Pope winded up a global gathering of young Catholics on Sunday with a giant open-air mass for hundreds of thousands of pilgrims before leaving Panama. Photo: AFP
An idea to fill empty pulpits in remote locations by allowing married men to become priests is bitterly dividing a Vatican assembly, with critics warning the emotive issue could fracture the Catholic Church.
The hot-button topic of whether an exception can be made to the centuries-old custom of celibacy in places where there is a shortage of priests has dominated the start of the three-week "synod" on the Pan-Amazonian region.
Austro-Brazilian bishop Erwin Krautler said Wednesday he estimated some two-thirds of the bishops in the region support the idea of "viri probati" (married "men of proven virtue") as candidates for priesthood.
"There is no other option, indigenous peoples are clearly asking for it," the former bishop of Xingu in Brazil told journalists.
Pope Francis has suggested those at the assembly to consider the possibility of ordaining married men for remote locations, such as the Amazon or the Pacific Islands, where communities seldom have Mass due to a lack of priests.
Only priests can consecrate the Eucharist, which is a key part of Catholic Mass.
Krautler and other supporters of the idea say the Eucharist is more important than celibacy, which is not a Church law.
"Just as the magnificent jaguar faces exile from its habitat, the ecclesiastical ecosystem no longer manages to arouse and support enough priestly and religious vocations," a person who attended the synod debates cited an unnamed Spanish-language bishop as saying.
"We are witnessing a sort of deforestation of Catholic culture," the synod debates attendee added.Newspaper headline: Church split over issue of exception to celibacy Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Girls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific AirshowSurviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenship