Illustration: Luo Xuan/GTAs one of the nation's less-developed areas, Southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region has improved public services in recent years thanks to increased financial support from the central government. Marked progress has been achieved in cultural education, health care, social security, social services, and transportation.A report on peoples' livelihood released jointly by Tibet University and Peking University early this year revealed more families in the agricultural and pastoral areas of Lhasa have access to modern education. The report also found that only roughly 25 percent of the surveyed families in Lhasa do not have a member in school, while over 70 percent have at least one enrolled in the education system. The substantial increase is closely related to central government support.Tibet is the first provincial-level region in China to secure 15 years of free child education. It provides free education, school meals, and homes for primary and middle school students. Authorities have invested significant manpower and material resources into Tibet to foster human capital.Helping students acquire education is not an easy task in Tibet, considering the region's low population density. Tibet has made arrangements with education institutions mandating that villages have kindergartens, townships should have primary schools, counties should have junior high schools, and every city should have senior high schools.However, it needs to be pointed out that the dropout rates for children and high school students are high. For one thing, the goal of building kindergartens in every village has yet to be fully achieved, which requires additional efforts. For another, free education accessible to local students that covers the cost of tuition and accommodations mostly covered primary and middle schools before 2012, while peasant and herdsman households had to pay tuition for high school and beyond. Due to education expenses, many peasants and herdsmen believe it's enough for their children to finish junior high school, which prevents older teenagers from completing high school. The implementation of the 15-year compulsory education in its entirety began in 2012. Education development is a long-term project, and its effectiveness rests upon a long-term approach to government commitments.Among local families who have members that receive a formal education, ranging from kindergarten to middle school and at the university level, record a percentage of nearly 40 percent, and those with middle school students are at roughly 23 percent, and families who have members enrolled in a college account for more than 17 percent. A satisfaction survey on local families regarding compulsory education revealed that over 90 percent of respondents expressed satisfaction. The results indicate local acceptance and appreciation of the 15-year program in the autonomous region.  The satisfaction is derived from the local government's tuition- and accommodation-free policy for elementary and middle schools and grants offered to local students. Regardless of an array of preferential educational policies from the government, the local farming and pastoral region continues to grapple with high dropout rates at the primary and high school levels. It will still require the allocation of additional resources from the government, but parents will also need to attach greater importance to education. The article was compiled based on a report by Beijing-based private strategic think tank Anbound. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Training session on apple business held at village of China's Tibet New books explain history of Tibet Section of Sichuan-Tibet Highway that stretches down nearly 1,500 meters in the mountains Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Rose queensPG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying