Photo taken on Oct. 8, 2019 shows the exhibition stand of China Railway Rolling Stock Corporation (CRRC) at the fourth China-CEEC Conference on Innovation Cooperation in Belgrade, Serbia, on Oct. 8, 2019. China and seventeen Central and Eastern European Countries kicked off a conference on innovation cooperation here on Tuesday, bringing governments, companies and academics in the innovation ecosystem to seek synergy. (Photo by Predrag Milosavljevic/Xinhua)  

Wang Zhigang, Chinese Minister of Science and Technology, addresses the opening ceremony of the fourth China-CEEC Conference on Innovation Cooperation in Belgrade, Serbia, on Oct. 8, 2019. (Photo by Predrag Milosavljevic/Xinhua)  



Officials and guests pose for a group photo at the fourth China-CEEC Conference on Innovation Cooperation in Belgrade, Serbia, on Oct. 8, 2019. (Photo by Predrag Milosavljevic/Xinhua) The visitor arrivals in China's Macao Special Administrative Region (SAR) reached more than 980,000 during the "Golden Week" of the National Day holiday, up 11.5 percent year-on-year, the SAR tourism office said on Tuesday. Visitor arrivals from the mainland reached more than 798,000 during the seven-day holiday, up by 9.4 percent year-on-year, the Macao Government Tourism Office (MGTO) said. 

Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic addresses the opening ceremony of the fourth China-CEEC Conference on Innovation Cooperation in Belgrade, Serbia, on Oct. 8, 2019. (Photo by Predrag Milosavljevic/Xinhua) Meanwhile, a total of 163,000 visitors arrived in Macao on Oct. 5, the peak day during the seven days, up 22 percent year-on-year. The MGTO had actively prepared for the arrival of the visitors by carrying out a series of tasks, including operation of tourism notification system, it said. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Surviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenshipHorse dancing  College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in US