Illustration: Luo Xuan/GTExcessive foreign debt generally has a major impact on a country's economic and financial stability. The 1997 Asian financial crisis and the frequent financial market turmoil in South America are directly related to the high levels of foreign debt in countries in these regions. The 2008 global financial crisis also had a significant impact on economies with excessive foreign debt. In recent years, China's foreign debt has seen signs of rapid growth, which is deserving of attention.Statistics show that by the end of December 2018, China's foreign debt balance was $1.96 trillion, up $207.3 billion, or 12 percent, compared to the end of 2017. So far, the rising trend continues. According to the latest data released by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, China's foreign debt balance had reached nearly $2 trillion by the end of June this year, marking a record high and an increase of $26.3 billion, or 1.3 percent, compared to the end of March. In terms of debt maturity structure, the balance of China's long and medium-term foreign debt amounted to $783.6 billion, accounting for 39 percent of the total, while short-term foreign debt was at $1.21 trillion, accounting for 61 percent.While main indicators measuring China's foreign debt risk are all below global warning levels, these gauges have been on an upward trend. By the end of 2018, China's foreign debt balance-to-GDP ratio stood at 14.4 percent; the ratio of foreign debt to revenues from goods and services exports was at 74.1 percent; and the ratio of short-term foreign debt to foreign reserves was 41.4 percent. Compared with the 2016 data, all indicators recorded increases, with the ratio of short-term foreign debt to foreign reserves up by 12.4 percentage points compared with the end of 2016.Foreign exchange reserves are the final support and guarantee for a country to repay its foreign debt. If the scale of foreign debt climbs quickly, it will inevitably exert certain pressure on China's foreign exchange reserves. It should be noted that China's reserves failed to increase but instead saw a remarkable decline in recent years. For instance, they dropped from $3.84 trillion in 2014 to the current $3.1 trillion, a reduction of more than 19 percent, while the foreign debt balance rose from $895.5 billion in 2014 to the current $1.32 trillion, up by more than 47 percent. The data shows that the monthly growth rate of foreign debt has significantly exceeded the growth of foreign exchange reserves, indicating China faces risks in this regard.It is worth noting that the proportion of foreign exchange reserves that can be used to repay foreign debt is actually limited. China's foreign exchange reserves are composed of four parts: trade surplus, investment by foreign-owned companies, aid loans by international financial institutions, and hot money. The country may only be free to use the trade surplus as the other three sources are hard to control.A simple calculation may reveal that after deducting the foreign debt balance, the net reserves are only at around $1.8 trillion. Some scholars once estimated that the total asset value of foreign-owned companies in China had already exceeded $1.5 trillion. Against the background of the US-China trade war, there are signs of withdrawal by foreign capital. Assuming an extreme scenario of foreign capital withdrawal, China's remaining foreign exchange reserves would be at only $300 billion. While this kind of estimation is not theoretically accurate, it underlines the pressure of the rapid growth of foreign debt on China's reserves. In fact, China has already spent more than $1 trillion of its reserves to purchase US Treasuries, meaning that the portion of its funds cannot be used to repay foreign debt at any time, affecting China's solvency of its foreign exchange reserves.As a direct result of the sharp rise in foreign debt, China's foreign exchange reserves will face greater pressure, which will contribute to increased depreciation pressure on the yuan exchange rate. One of the important reasons why the yuan's rate can maintain long-term stability is that China has accumulated a huge amount of foreign exchange reserves to cope with any major market turmoil. If these reserves are not available for use due to the foreign debt factor, then the support stabilizing the yuan's rate will weaken. If international and domestic economic conditions continue to deteriorate and multiple bad turns are encountered at the same time, the yuan's exchange rate stability will become a problem. This will lead to more capital outflows and affect domestic financial markets. Therefore, China needs to pay special attention to its rapidly rising foreign debt levels.The article was compiled based on a report by Beijing-based private strategic think tank Anbound. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China-Russia mutual trust more stable than gold Beijing needs to prepare for emergence and development of a new global monetary system China’s continuous hike of gold reserves demonstrates diversification efforts Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Girls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific AirshowSurviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenship