A Chinese calligraphy enthusiast demonstrates Chinese calligraphy featuring oracle bone inscriptions at National Museum of Chinese Writing in Anyang, central China's Henan Province, Oct. 18, 2019. An exhibition themed oracle bone inscriptions kicked off Friday in Anyang, where oracle bone inscriptions were unearthed, to commemorate the 120th anniversary of the discovery of oracle bone inscriptions. Jiaguwen, or oracle bone inscriptions, are an ancient Chinese language named for their inscriptions on tortoise shells and animal bones. They are a primitive form of Chinese characters and the oldest fully-developed characters in China. (Xinhua/Li An) 



A visitor views oracle bone inscription exhibits during an exhibition held at National Museum of Chinese Writing in Anyang, central China's Henan Province, Oct. 18, 2019. An exhibition themed oracle bone inscriptions kicked off Friday in Anyang, where oracle bone inscriptions were unearthed, to commemorate the 120th anniversary of the discovery of oracle bone inscriptions. Jiaguwen, or oracle bone inscriptions, are an ancient Chinese language named for their inscriptions on tortoise shells and animal bones. They are a primitive form of Chinese characters and the oldest fully-developed characters in China. (Xinhua/Li An) 



A visitor views oracle bone inscription exhibits during an exhibition held at National Museum of Chinese Writing in Anyang, central China's Henan Province, Oct. 18, 2019. An exhibition themed oracle bone inscriptions kicked off Friday in Anyang, where oracle bone inscriptions were unearthed, to commemorate the 120th anniversary of the discovery of oracle bone inscriptions. Jiaguwen, or oracle bone inscriptions, are an ancient Chinese language named for their inscriptions on tortoise shells and animal bones. They are a primitive form of Chinese characters and the oldest fully-developed characters in China. (Xinhua/Li An) 



Chinese calligraphy enthusiasts demonstrate Chinese calligraphy featuring oracle bone inscriptions at National Museum of Chinese Writing in Anyang, central China's Henan Province, Oct. 18, 2019. (Xinhua/Li An) 



A visitor views oracle bone inscription exhibits during an exhibition held at National Museum of Chinese Writing in Anyang, central China's Henan Province, Oct. 18, 2019. (Xinhua/Li An) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US PG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific Airshow