US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Photo: VCGThe Chinese Foreign Ministry slammed US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Thursday as hypocritical with malicious intentions after she glorified the violent Hong Kong crimes as "non-violent protests" and posted a photo of her with some Hong Kong opposition figures on her Twitter account. Hua Chunying, spokesperson of China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said that politicians like Pelosi turned black into white, glorified violent Hong Kong crimes as "non-violent protests," and supported Hong Kong rioters, and their hypocrisy and malicious intentions are really ugly. "I don't know how much bloodshed Pelosi and other politicians want from Hong Kong police, and how much tears and injuries they want from Hong Kong residents to let them get back their conscience," Hua said. It is precisely just because of the cover of people like Pelosi that those violent criminals turned more fearless, Hua said.Everyone has seen that what is happening in Hong Kong is 100 percent street violence and illegal crimes. Mobs smashed shops, destroyed public facilities, beat innocent citizens, violently assaulted police and even endangered police's lives by splashing water and cutting their throats, Hua said. Hua made the remarks at a routine press conference on Thursday after Pelosi posted a photo of her with Hong Kong opposition figures, including Jimmy Lai Chee-ying, founder of Apple Daily, and Hong Kong barrister Martin Lee Chu-ming on her Twitter account on Wednesday, saying, "My full support and admiration goes to those who have taken to the streets week after week in non-violent protests to fight for democracy and the rule of law in Hong Kong.""I want to say to Pelosi, the beautiful scenery you want to enjoy, can you enjoy it yourself? We don't want to share with you," Hua said. "I also want to tell Pelosi that no matter how your eyes are blinded by prejudice and how your heart is filled with evil, Hong Kong is China's Hong Kong," Hua said. She said that any attempt to intervene in Hong Kong affairs is doomed to fail, and any attempt to support the separation of Hong Kong is wishful thinking This trick may have worked in other places, but in Hong Kong, in the land of China, what people like Pelosi end up with is only a dream and suffering from bitterness, Hua said. Global Times 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Pelosi, Trump trade 'meltdown' barbs over meeting on Syria Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US PG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific Airshow