Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif speaks during the international conference on "Unilateralism and International Law" in Tehran, Iran, Oct. 21, 2019. Zarif said on Monday that the United States has created tension in the Middle East region, official IRNA news agency reported. (Photo by Ahmad Halabisaz/Xinhua) 

Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif leaves the international conference on "Unilateralism and International Law" in Tehran, Iran, Oct. 21, 2019. Zarif said on Monday that the United States has created tension in the Middle East region, official IRNA news agency reported. (Photo by Ahmad Halabisaz/Xinhua) Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said on Monday that the United States has created tension in the Middle East region, official IRNA news agency reported. "The United States has set fire on our region," Zarif said at the international conference on "Unilateralism and International Law" held at Allameh Tabataba'i University in Iran's capital Tehran. "If there is a war, there won't be a winner or loser. There will be two losers, one with a heavier loss and the other with lesser," he noted. The Iranian minister also slammed the United States for what he called leaving international treaties. "The United States pulled out of the Iranian nuclear deal, the NAFTA (the North American Free Trade Agreement), the Paris climate deal, the missile deal with Russia, and many others. I hope they also leave the UN Security Council so we are relieved," Zarif said.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Israel's Netanyahu, Pompeo discuss Syrian, Iranian issues Iran FM says attack on Iranian oil tanker "state-sponsored" Iranian women watch soccer games in stadium after 40 years Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US PG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific Airshow