Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi (R) and Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry (L) meet with German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas in Cairo, Egypt, on Oct. 29, 2019. Egypt and Germany agreed on Tuesday to intensify their efforts to reach a comprehensive solution to the Libyan crisis. (MENA via Xinhua)Egypt and Germany agreed on Tuesday to intensify their efforts to reach a comprehensive solution to the Libyan crisis. Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi discussed with visiting German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas a number of regional issues of bilateral interest, including the Libyan and Syrian conflicts, said Bassam Radi, spokesperson of the Egyptian presidency's office. The two leaders agreed on "the need for a Libyan solution which would conserve the state's resources and its national institutions, and limit foreign interference and thus contribute in eliminating terrorism," Radi said. Sisi emphasized Egypt's stance on supporting a solution in Syria to preserve the unity and territorial integrity of the country. Later in a joint press conference, Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry said "Egypt has repeatedly reiterated the necessity of (finding) a political resolution for the crisis in Libya, and the rejection of foreign interference." Cairo was the final destination of Maas' North African tour, which included stops in Libya and Tunisia. Maas said during his visit in Libya that he was seeking an end to all "foreign interference" in the country. Germany is planning to bring together all Libyan rival factions for a comprehensive solution to the extended eight-year conflict later this year. In April, the eastern-based Libyan National Army loyal to Khalifa Haftar began an offensive to gain control over the capital Tripoli controlled by the internationally recognised government of national accord. At least 1,000 people have been killed in the escalated conflict as a result, and 120,000 others have been displaced, the World Health Organization has said. On the Syrian conflict, the German foreign minister called for an extension to a six-day cease-fire in northeastern Syria. "It is now essential for guns to fall silent permanently," he said. "This war in Syria can only be resolved politically," the minister said. "Every military success there, as big as it may be, will always remain a short-term one." Commenting on the resignation of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri following massive protests in Lebanon, Maas said he closely followed the situation, vowing to help achieve stability there. He hoped that the resignation of the government wouldn't lead to instability of the country, adding "we don't need political vacuum right now in Lebanon." 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Libyan authorities release unlicensed Italian fishing boat Libyan government considers closing immigration reception centers Libyan navy says rescues 199 migrants off western coast Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Rose queensPG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying