Photo: XinhuaChina is prepared for the second China International Import Expo (CIIE) that will run from Nov. 5 to 10 in Shanghai, Vice Minister of Commerce Wang Bingnan said Tuesday. Guests and representatives from more than 170 countries and regions have been invited to attend the expo so far, Wang said at a press conference. More than 500,000 buyers and visitors from home and abroad are expected at the expo, he added. The expo is composed of three parts -- country exhibitions, business exhibitions and the second Hongqiao International Economic Forum. Covering a total area of 30,000 square meters, the country exhibitions will host 64 countries (including China) and three international organizations, with uniquely designed pavilions to showcase the countries' development achievements, business environment and special industries, Wang said. The 15 guest countries of honor are Cambodia, the Czech Republic, France, Greece, India, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Peru, Russia, Thailand, Uzbekistan, and Zambia. Covering 330,000 square meters, the business exhibitions have attracted more than 3,000 companies from over 150 countries and regions. The scale of the second CIIE is larger than the first one, with the total exhibition area rising to 360,000 square meters from 300,000 square meters last year. "Although the area for business exhibitions has been expanded twice, there are still companies failing to get a place," Wang said. The second Hongqiao International Economic Forum, under the theme of "Opening-up and Innovation for Win-win Cooperation," will include five parallel sessions and is expected to attract over 4,000 delegates. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  192 US enterprises to attend the 2nd CIIE in Shanghai Overseas medical giants compete for a place at the second CIIE Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Rose queensPG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying