Passengers walk in the Solna Centrum metro station in Stockholm, Sweden, Oct. 8, 2019. Till now, Stockholm's subway system consists of one hundred stations, each with unique art on its platform, walls or waiting hall. Since 1957, artists have been greatly involved in the building of new stations, and they also added beautiful statues, murals, and installations to the older stations. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong) 

A passenger walks with her dog in the Stadion metro station in Stockholm, Sweden, Oct. 8, 2019. Till now, Stockholm's subway system consists of one hundred stations, each with unique art on its platform, walls or waiting hall. Since 1957, artists have been greatly involved in the building of new stations, and they also added beautiful statues, murals, and installations to the older stations. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong) 



A passenger walks in the Thorildsplan metro station in Stockholm, Sweden, Oct. 9, 2019. Till now, Stockholm's subway system consists of one hundred stations, each with unique art on its platform, walls or waiting hall. Since 1957, artists have been greatly involved in the building of new stations, and they also added beautiful statues, murals, and installations to the older stations. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong) 



Passengers walk in the T-Centralen metro station in Stockholm, Sweden, Oct. 8, 2019. Till now, Stockholm's subway system consists of one hundred stations, each with unique art on its platform, walls or waiting hall. Since 1957, artists have been greatly involved in the building of new stations, and they also added beautiful statues, murals, and installations to the older stations. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong) 



Passengers walk in the Solna Centrum metro station in Stockholm, Sweden, Oct. 8, 2019. Till now, Stockholm's subway system consists of one hundred stations, each with unique art on its platform, walls or waiting hall. Since 1957, artists have been greatly involved in the building of new stations, and they also added beautiful statues, murals, and installations to the older stations. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Surviving a mass shooting the wrong path to US citizenshipHorse dancing  College admission scandal reveals moral breakdown in US