The Mexican Ambassador to China José Luis Bernal gives a welcome speech at the event. Photo: Courtesy of the Mexican Embassy in China The 2019 Bimbo Global Energy Race, organized by the renowned Mexican bakery manufacturing company Grupo Bimbo, once again opened at the Beijing Olympic Forest Park on Saturday, attracting nearly 3,000 runners to participate in this 10-kilometer race. The Mexican Ambassador to China José Luis Bernal participated in the event and gave a welcome speech.This year marks the 5th consecutive year of the Global Energy Race. Over the past five years, there have been more than 500,000 participants from all over the world. In Beijing alone, there have been more than 15,000 participants. This year's race coincides with the climax of the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China, so "chasing dreams all the way and running together" has become an inspiration for 3,000 runners of all ages. The first winners of the men's and women's team will be able to run the race in Buenos Aires in 2020.As a good opportunity to promote Mexican brand and sport culture, the competition is supported by the Mexican Embassy in China every year. Ambassador Bernal, who attended the competition, said, "Grupo Bimbo is a star enterprise in Mexico and even in the world. The embassy is honored to witness this grand gathering, witness the strength and love of Chinese runners. As the Mexican Ambassador to China, I am very happy to see Bimbo so popular in China and look forward to a higher level of economic, trade and cultural exchanges between Mexico and China in the future."According to the rules of the competition, this year it will carry on the excellent tradition - for every kilometer every runner runs, the company will donate two slices of bread to the public welfare. Over the years, runners have totally donated 180,000 slices of bread. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Mexican Ambassador: Chinese, Mexicans share a common goal Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Rose queensPG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying