Photo: XinhuaEurope's venture capitalists (VCs) sometimes joke that they're glorified civil servants, since government agencies are still the largest contributors to many funds. Returns have historically been humdrum compared with US peers, who also raised about five times more capital than Europe's $10 billion haul in 2018.The transatlantic deficit may be closing, however, as optimistic private valuations of US VC-backed companies come unstuck. Shares in Uber Technologies, Slack Technologies and Peloton Interactive are down 25 percent on average since listing this year. WeWork parent The We Company didn't even get that far. Data presented at last week's Venture Capital Forum in Paris by the European Investment Fund, one of the public backers of the bloc's VCs, implies there may be a systematic overvaluation problem in the US. US "ICT unicorns," or VC-backed companies in the information and communication technology sector worth $1 billion or more, have historically been valued at roughly 5.5 times the amount of venture money invested by the time they reached that milestone. But when their backers managed to cash out, the multiple shrank to about 4.5, according to the data set used by the EIF which stretches back over a decade. In Europe, the opposite is true: the bloc's star ICT companies were worth almost five times invested capital when they reached unicorn status, and their backers went on to realize a 5.5 times multiple. The takeaway is that European private tech valuations are closer to reality than those stateside.Or at least that's the hope of many attendees at the Venture Capital Forum. The theory is that the US' historic strength - tons of cash - is now a weakness, since startups are bloated and overvalued. In Europe, by contrast, there's less money chasing each promising opportunity, which bodes well for returns. Old World tech investors still face unique challenges, including slow GDP growth and a patchwork of 30-odd economies with different rules and languages. That's partly why major venture money has historically steered clear. But the data suggests those obstacles are surmountable: European and US VC returns have both been around 15 percent to 20 percent in recent years, according to data presented by Amadeus Capital Partners' Anne Glover at the forum. In the mid-1990s, there was a 20 percentage point gap. The US tech implosion is an opportunity for European VC.The author is Liam Proud, a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The article was first published on Reuters Breakingviews. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  SE Asia start-ups lure Chinese VC Luring VC firms back for start-ups urgent in trade war Chinese VCs bet on Africa Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US PG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific Airshow