Guests pose for a group photo at the launch ceremony for the "Chinese Bookshelf" project in London, Britain, Oct. 22, 2019. "Chinese Bookshelf," a project which aims to provide local readers an access to Chinese books and culture, was launched Tuesday here. Located inside Foyles Bookstore at Charing Cross Road, near the British Museum and Chinatown, the "China Bookshelf" introduces more than 100 kinds of books such as literature, folktale, economic publications and political works. (Photo by Stephen Chung/Xinhua) 

Photo taken on Oct. 22, 2019 shows the "Chinese Bookshelf" at Foyles Bookstore in London, Britain. "Chinese Bookshelf," a project which aims to provide local readers an access to Chinese books and culture, was launched Tuesday here. Located inside Foyles Bookstore at Charing Cross Road, near the British Museum and Chinatown, the "China Bookshelf" introduces more than 100 kinds of books such as literature, folktale, economic publications and political works. (Photo by Stephen Chung/Xinhua) "Chinese Bookshelf," a project which aims to provide local readers an access to Chinese books and culture, was launched Tuesday here. Located inside Foyles Bookstore at Charing Cross Road, near the British Museum and Chinatown, the "China Bookshelf" introduces more than 100 kinds of books such as literature, folktale, economic publications and political works. Carmelo Puglisi, head of foreign language books at Foyles Bookstore, told Xinhua that the bookshop has always attached great importance to Chinese books as it started selling them years ago. "We had introduced books on Chinese culture to the UK and we thought what's available is limited. We try to get more books on arts, literature, politics and history. That's why we decide to join the project," Puglisi said. Pi Jun, president of China Youth Publishing Group, said the "Chinese Bookshelf" is an important measure to meet Western readers's increasing need to learn about China through high-quality books. Liu Xiaoming, Chinese ambassador to Britain, said in a congratulatory letter to the launching ceremony that the carefully-selected books in the "Chinese Bookshelf" will serve as a bridge for cultural exchanges and a window for Western readers to understand China. Richard Charkin, a world-renowned publisher and former president of the International Publishers Association, said at the launching ceremony that as an old friend who has been working closely with many Chinese publishers, he is happy to see further globalization of Chinese publishing through projects like "Chinese Bookshelf." "Chinese publishing has transformed itself in the last 10 to 20 years, and it is now among the leading publishing nations of the world ... I think the more the Chinese and Western publishers can develop global Chinese books, journals, databases, the more understanding there will be between the East and West," he said. Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US PG&E blackouts reveal mismanaged concern over public safetyGirls three times more likely to be victims of cyberbullying Great Pacific Airshow